   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5TF6526

   Saturday, 31 December 2022

   বাংলা
   (BUTTON) Login
   বাংলাসংস্করণ
     * Bangladesh
     * International
     * Sports
     * Opinion
     * Business
     * Youth
     * Entertainment
     * Lifestyle

   Politics

Gaibandha by-election: Polling centre goons were outsiders

   Correspondent
   Gaibandha
   Published: 14 Oct 2022, 04: 11

   The locals in Gaibandha-5 constituency (Saghata-Phulchari) do not know
   the people who entered the polling booths using their influence and
   cast votes illegally in the by-election on Wednesday.

   Prothom Alo spoke to some 14 presiding officers and nine agents of
   Jatiya Party (JaPa) to ascertain what actually happened inside the
   polling centres that day. They said the ‘goons’ at the polling booths
   were outsiders.

   Meanwhile, a number of papers with signatures of the presiding officers
   went viral on social media. These are claimed to be the election
   results of some centres. The papers contain the number of votes cast
   and describe the election to be a fair one.

   The presiding officers concerned admitted the signatures to be
   authentic, but claimed that they had been compelled to sign the papers
   before leaving the polling centres, in the face of tremendous pressure
   from the locals.

   Jatiya Party candidate Golam Shahid alleged that followers of the
   ruling Awami League candidate kicked out his agents from more than a
   hundred polling centres.

   But the ruling party candidate, Mahmud Hasan, binned the allegation,
   terming it as baseless.

   The Awami League men staged demonstrations separately in Saghata and
   Phulchari upazilas on Thursday, demanding announcement of election
   results of the polling centres where no irregularities took place.

     If that is the case, then it is a criminal offence. The matter
     should be investigated under the supervision of a commissioner

   M Shakhawat Hossain, former election commissioner

   Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Kazi Habibul Awal announced the
   closure of voting in the by-polls midway on Wednesday, in the aftermath
   of allegations of various irregularities.

   Asked whether the intruders in the secret room are the so called goons,
   the CEC said “These are the goons. These are the crooks. Those who do
   not obey the law, we can call them goon, crook.”

   Most of the 14 presiding officers and nine Jatiya Party agents spoke
   about the intrusion of outsiders into the polling stations.

   Mizanur Rahman, who was a polling agent of Jatiya Party at Beragram
   Government Primary School, said the ruling party activists kicked him
   out of the polling centre at the beginning of voting. Later, they cast
   votes in favour of the ‘boat’ symbol using their influence.

   Mizan also said that none of the intruders were known to him. They all
   were outsiders.

   Shajahan Miyan, another polling agent of the Jatiya Party, said his
   party appointed four agents at the polling centre, but they all were
   thrown out by the ruling party activists.

   Jahangir Miyan, a Jatiya Party agent at Gobindapur Government Primary
   School polling centre, said there were eight agents of Jatiya Party at
   the centre. But the  supporters of the ‘boat’ symbol intimidated them
   and threw them out of the centre.

   The issue was reported to the police and the presiding officer, but no
   action was taken against them, he added.

   On condition of anonymity, a polling officer of the centre said some
   people entered the secret room and ensured voting in favour of ‘boat’.
   Presiding officer Alim Uddin said he brought the JaPa agents back to
   the polling centre after receiving complaints.

   Faruk Sarder, Rubel Miyan, and Azadul, other agents of JaPa, also made
   similar complaints.

   Superintendent of Gaibandha Police (SP) Touhidul Islam said he
   witnessed a peaceful election. No one lodged complaints over chaos or
   showing power at the polling booth.

   Belal Uddin, the presiding officer of Bharatkhali High School polling
   centre in Saghata, said a ruling party agent was casting votes
   simultaneously in two booths. Seeing such a scene through the CCTV
   camera, the election commission ordered the suspension of voting at the
   centre.

   The JaPa candidate said more than 100 of his agents were kicked out
   from 145 centres. He himself could not cast his vote. After reaching
   Kazi Azahar Ali High School centre in Saghata, he found all the rooms
   filled with people. Later, he went back without casting his vote.

   On the other hand, the ruling party candidate, Mahmud Hasan, termed the
   complaints as baseless and said none of his followers threw out JaPa
   and other polling agents and obstructed them. Rather, he demanded the
   announcement of election results except for the suspended centres.

   Leaders and activists of Saghata and Phulchari upazilas staged
   demonstrations on Thursday. They brought out a procession from the
   Saghata upazila parishad around 12:00pm. Meanwhile, the ruling party
   men held a procession in Phulchari and set fire on the highway around
   11:00am.

   Five candidates contested the election. They are – Mahmud Hasan from
   Awami League, AHM Golam Shahid from JaPa, Jahangir Alam from Bikalpa
   Dhara, and Nahiduzzaman and Syed Mahbubur Rahman as independent
   candidates. All, except for the ruling party candidate, boycotted the
   election after reports of irregularities.

White paper goes viral

   The white papers, signed and sealed by the presiding officers at its
   bottom, mentions that the election has been conducted properly.

   Mahmudul Hasan, the presiding officer of Bera Government Primary School
   center in Saghata upazila, told Prothom Alo that the locals surrounded
   them and demanded written results of voting when they were preparing to
   leave the centre following the suspension order. In the face of
   pressure, he provided written results on white papers and left the
   centre.

   Another presiding officer Abdul Latif echoed the remark and said he had
   to sign the result paper before leaving the polling centre at Jadurtair
   Government Primary School.

   All the nine presiding officers came up with similar remarks.

   Kamrul Islam, assistant returning officer of the by-election, said they
   received no white paper with election result. He is unaware how the
   papers went viral on facebook.

   Former election commissioner M Shakhawat Hossain said, “If that is the
   case, then it is a criminal offence. The matter should be investigated
   under the supervision of a commissioner.

   “What was their role will come out through the CCTV footage. At the
   same time, it should be investigated whether the election officials and
   law enforcement agencies immediately reported to the election
   commission about the incidents of breaking the CCTV cameras and
   shutting down the routers of various polling stations,” he added.
   Read more from Politics
     * Jatiya Party
     * National Election
     * Election commission
     * Crime
     * By-poll
     * General Election
     * CEC
     * Jatiya Sangsad
     * Vote
     * Chief Election Commissioner
     * Vote Rigging
     * Gaibandha
     * Awami League
     * Election

   Post Comment
