   Skip to main content

   [module]
     * Home
     * Local
     * Sports
     * Things to Do
     * Nation Now
     * Business
     * Travel & Explore
     * Politics
     * Opinion
     * Investigations
     * eNewspaper
     * Advertise with Us
     * Obituaries
     * Archives
     * Weather
     * Crosswords
     * Newsletters
     * AZ International Auto Show & New Car Buyer's Guide 2020 Model Year
     * Connect With Us
     * For Subscribers

   [module]

   [b6a4bc92-b2de-4e41-affc-e6f92e8f7067-jason-beck-peoria-9769251002-01.j
   pg?crop=1983,1488,x1400,y211?width=320&height=240]

This political 'outsider' is running for Peoria mayor. What voters should
know about Jason Beck
     __________________________________________________________________

   Taylor Seely   | Arizona Republic

   Jason Beck describes himself as a Christian conservative, but long
   before entering the Peoria mayoral race, he characterized himself as a
   calloused kid who liked to fight.

   He grew up in Missouri with a mom he said was abusive, an absent father
   and in and out of foster care — a combination that “hardened” him, he
   said on the Arizona Originals podcast.

   Beck tried college, but said it wasn't for him. He told The Arizona
   Republic he wasn’t a good student and he wanted to earn money, not
   accrue debt.

   "I knew that that was my way out of poverty," he said.

   He joined the Marine Corps Reserve in 1992, but didn't see it as a
   career path. After three years, Beck said he took an option to cut his
   contract short.

   Instead, he found a career in fighting, returning to the mixed-martial
   arts he'd practiced as a kid. Teaching Jiu Jitsu led him to Arizona,
   where he eventually trained military and law enforcement personnel in
   MMA.

   By 2001, he launched a company selling tactical gear, then sold it
   seven years later, he said. He would open a similar business in Peoria
   in 2010.

   Beck's Tyr Tactical quietly grew into one of Peoria's largest private
   employers with more than 300 workers in a shop near Loop 101 and Olive
   Avenue. The company makes products such as bulletproof vests and
   shields for police departments across the country and military
   forces around the globe.

   Peoria, like many cities, seeks high-wage employers, and Beck campaigns
   on his experience growing a business. At his company, he offers a full
   slate of health benefits and a free onsite medical clinic, but some of
   his employees qualify for state-funded health insurance. There are
   mixed reviews of the work culture.

   Beck and his company gained the political spotlight when then-Vice
   President Mike Pence toured the facility and campaigned there for
   Donald Trump in 2020. Two years later, Beck is making his first run for
   political office with the support of Republican politicians from U.S.
   Rep. Debbie Lesko, R-Ariz., to state Senate President Karen Fann.

   While he has found a strong base of support, some wonder how far right
   Beck's political ties extend.

   Beck, for his part, has said he would be a mayor for all and that such
   questions are meant to distract from the city's flawed leadership.

   He has criticized the city for its emergency response times and for not
   spending more to staff public safety.

   He said he's running to make Peoria more "business focused" and
   questions the ability of his opponent in the Nov. 8 mayoral election,
   seven-year City Council member Bridget Binsbacher, to build investor
   confidence.  He's tired of seeing the city build apartments where they
   should be building jobs, he said.

   "Peoria needs an outsider and a jobs creator to actually change the
   future of the city and to actually drive the city to its future
   development," Beck said at a recent mayoral debate.

   Beck and Binsbacher are engaged in one of the most contentious,
   expensive and partisan mayoral races in the city's history.

Beck's relationship with the far right

   Some Peoria residents have questioned his connections to some on the
   far right.

   At least one member of the Patriot Party of Arizona appeared to
   have helped Beck knock on doors to build support last February,
   according to social media posts.

   “We're going to hit the ground this Sunday 0800. Where’s my Peoria
   Patriots? Please join us at the Beck Compound to meet up and get the
   good news out to our neighbors!,” wrote Traci Kinney, an administrator
   of the Patriot Party Facebook Group.

   Kinney later told The Republic she never knocked on doors for Beck but
   that she supported him.

   The grassroots activist group, Patriot Party of Arizona, which says it
   espouses "constitutional conservatism," has grown alongside a
   larger Patriot movement defined by divisive and conspiratorial
   beliefs.

   The movement has been at the center of debates over gun rights, sex
   education in schools and re-opening the state during the pandemic. They
   also claim the 2020 election was rigged and rally around so-called
   "election integrity" reforms such as banning mail-in ballots and
   restricting voting to one day in person.

   Kinney contends Patriot Party members are not far right or
   extremist but rather true conservatives who haven't shifted left like
   many establishment Republicans. She added that she did not like Beck's
   affiliation with some Republicans she calls "RINOS," or Republican in
   name only.

   Beck said he has never been a member of the Patriot Party and only
   first heard of them  last year.

   Read more: How the Patriot movement’s extreme views found a home in the
   GOP

   “Jason Beck is Peoria’s only choice for constitutional conservatives,”
   Kinney wrote in another Facebook post in March. She added an eyeball
   emoji, saying “(Look or watch) CLOSELY! We’re just getting started!”

   Kinney has driven around town in one of the trucks with a massive
   digital billboard supporting Beck. Beck has not claimed use of the
   trucks on his campaign finance reports, which prompted a resident to
   file a complaint against him that is under investigation.

   Beck has also hosted events at his company alongside candidates and
   others who claim the 2020 election was rigged, including Abe Hamadeh, a
   vocal election denier running for Arizona attorney general, and Richard
   Grenell, a former acting director of national intelligence under
   President Trump.

   Beck donated $5,000 to Hamadeh's campaign, according to state records.

   State Rep. Shawnna Bolick, R-Phoenix, endorsed Beck. Bolick, in the
   uproar over Biden's win in the 2020 presidential election, sponsored
   legislation that would have allowed state lawmakers to choose the slate
   of presidential electors instead of voters if they believed there was
   fraud.

   Related: Supreme Court Justice’s wife pressured Arizona lawmakers,
   Rusty Bowers and Shawnna Bolick, to overturn 2020 presidential election
   results

   David Sandoval, a Peoria school board member who is running as a
   Democrat for the state Legislature, rescinded his endorsement of Beck
   this spring, saying most of his endorsements catered to a “certain
   sector” of Peoria.

   Sandoval's family was born and raised in the Old Town area and
   he'd heard grievances from south Peoria residents who felt
   underrepresented by the City Council. He initially endorsed Beck after
   listening to the story of how he grew up, seeing his company's success
   and hearing his message that he’d be a mayor for all. But after seeing
   Beck’s other endorsements, he pulled out.

   "What he and I spoke about and what he told me, doesn't seem to be in
   line with what his campaign looks like and what his messaging is,"
   Sandoval said.

   Peoria City Councilmember Denette Dunn, a registered independent, told
   The Republic she encouraged Beck to run for mayor after a conversation
   with Kinney and a talk with Beck quelled her concerns.

   “My big thing is I don’t like extremism, but that’s me. I still have to
   serve people that have extreme beliefs," Dunn told The Republic. "We
   should all try to get along and understand each other.”

   Dunn also said she considered the Trump campaign signs that were
   plastered on Tyr Tactical's building in 2020. The city received two
   complaints against Beck at the time for displaying a Trump 2020 flag
   and three Trump-Pence campaign posters on the outside of the building.
   The city cited Beck for not obtaining a temporary signage permit for
   the posters but not for the flag, which it said was simply a show of
   support that did not violate city code. Beck removed the posters,
   Peoria records show.

   “Like a million other people, I saw the big Trump signs on the
   building,” Dunn said. “I wanted to make sure if he was interested (in
   running), would he serve everybody? ...  I asked him a lot of tough
   questions, and I was really happy with the answers that he gave me.”

   At a recent mayoral debate, the candidates were asked if the 2020
   election was free and fair. Both skirted the question. Binsbacher
   said it was time to move on. Beck offered a refrain similar to what has
   been asserted by Republican Senate candidate Blake Masters and
   Republican Secretary of State candidate Mark Finchem.

   "Our president is Joe Biden, and the reason we know that is because
   we've got the worst economy since 1929," Beck said.

   He went on to add, "What we need to do is actually make sure that we
   have a focus on our city."

   Peoria debate: Beck, Binsbacher sound off on education, jobs and public
   safety

Campaigning among Republicans

   City elections are nonpartisan, meaning a candidate's political party
   affiliation isn't on the ballot.

   But Beck, who is a registered Republican like Binsbacher, has the
   support of many GOP politicians and organizers in Peoria.

   In addition to Lesko and Fann, he also has the endorsement of House
   Majority Leader Ben Toma, R-Peoria, who lost his City Council seat to
   Binsbacher in 2015.

   Lori Bango, who formed the AZ Christian Patriots group and chairs
   Legislative District 28 Republicans, is an active Beck supporter.

   In turn, Beck has also supported GOP candidates, including:
     * $5,300 to Matt Salmon, a Republican who ran for governor.
     * $5,000 to Hamadeh.
     * $2,000 to Bolick, who lost her bid to become secretary of state.
     * $2,500 to Andrew Gould, an unsuccessful candidate for attorney
       general.
     * $2,500 to Beverly Pingerelli, a Republican seeking reelection to
       the state Legislature.
     * $1,500 to Devon Day for Peoria school board.
     * $1,500 to Heather Rooks for Peoria school board.

   Beck has continued to open Tyr Tactical's facilities for Republican
   gatherings, hosting a Karrin Taylor Robson campaign event in July in
   the same week LD28 Republicans held an event there that included Kari
   Lake. Robson lost to Lake in the GOP primary for governor a couple of
   weeks later.

Beyond the politics

   Beyond politics, to Beck’s friends, he is a successful businessman,
   faithful family man and obvious choice for mayor. He is married with
   six sons.

   Mark Moore, a pastor at Christ's Church of the Valley in Peoria, said
   he met Beck a dozen or so years ago when Beck approached him looking
   for guidance on “truly living as a disciple of Jesus.”

   The conversation became an entry point to a years-long friendship.
   They've gone on pilgrimages to Israel and hunting trips — Beck’s love
   of hunting is on display at his office, where two deer heads are
   mounted behind his desk. Beck also began leading a weekly church group
   in his home.

   “He is first and foremost a father and a husband,” said Moore, who
   has donated $1,000 to his campaign.

   Through the years, Moore said he’s seen the different sides of Beck and
   what drives him.

   “You’re going to experience two Jason Becks. One is a very forward
   looking, I don’t mean aggressive in a negative way, but a very —” Moore
   regathered his thoughts. “Let me say it this way. He’s a very driven
   businessman.”

   He explained that Beck is a “straight shooter” who “wants to be the
   best at what he does.”

   He also described Beck as a protector. “He's in the body armor
   industry. He does that so that he can protect people,” Moore said.

   Lesko called Beck “passionate,” “energetic” and “genuinely nice.”

   “You can’t help but be inspired by him,” she told The Republic. “He has
   a vision and he knows how to get something done.”

   Lesko, who lives in Peoria, said the city needs his business savvy.

   Beck also has support from the Mexican-American advocacy group Chicanos
   por la Causa and Peoria AFSCME labor union, which represents city
   workers. He's garnered the accolades of longtime Peoria resident Eva
   Osuna, too.

   Osuna, a Democrat who drives around with a Biden-Harris bumper sticker,
   said she protested at Tyr Tactical when Beck hosted Pence in 2020. She
   doesn’t align with him ideologically, but this is a nonpartisan race,
   she said, and she’s drawn to his accessibility.

   “He’s so open to dialogue. I like that,” Osuna said, though she noted
   she still hadn't decided if she'd vote for him.

In the workplace

   Beck repeatedly picked up tiny scraps of trash on the warehouse floor
   as he toured a Republic reporter around Tyr Tactical.

   He pointed out meticulous details: the white power cords hanging from
   the white ceiling over work stations. This was non-negotiable, he said.
   He wanted the facility to feel light and airy, not like a jail or a
   dungeon.

   The bathrooms have a number and light above each door. Fifteen
   bathrooms for 15 teams. A light shining red or green above the door
   indicates when the restroom is in use.

   It’s for efficiency and courtesy, he said. So people don’t stop working
   and waste time walking over to an in-use bathroom.

   The workers on the warehouse floor, mostly at sewing machines, were
   diverse.

   About 45% of the 320 employees are Hispanic, 28% are Asian, 22% are
   white and 5% are Black, according to data the company provided The
   Republic. The company did not provide statistics for diversity among
   upper management.

   Beck said he deploys a “leaders-eat-last mentality” and he credited his
   employees as "the backbone of our company" after receiving a recent
   Arizona Manufacturer of the Year Award from the Arizona Chamber of
   Commerce and Industry and the Arizona Manufacturers Council.

   Beck told The Republic he believes if he takes care of his employees,
   they’ll take care of him.

   He points to Tyr Tactical’s medical clinic as an example. Beck said he
   employs a doctor who workers can see for free. He also offers health
   care coverage, although he said some of his employees prefer
   state-funded health insurance.

   “They like the process of AHCCCS because they don’t have to pay
   anything at all,” Beck said. “I think employees will game the system as
   much as they can whenever it comes to those things.”

   AHCCCS, or Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System, is provided by
   the state to people with disabilities, pregnant women and low-income
   individuals who live within a certain range of the federal poverty
   level.

   The federal poverty level for a family of four for 2022 is $27,750.

   Beck said the average warehouse employee at Tyr Tactical makes $14.90
   an hour, with a longer term goal to increase it to $16.50.

   “We've had the state increases in minimum wage, you know, in a very
   rapid fashion, which has not been real business friendly, to be honest
   with you,” he added.

   Jobs website Indeed.com, which allows people to anonymously rank and
   review companies, shows positive reviews that highlight the health,
   dental and eye insurance as well as opportunities for overtime
   and annual pay increases.

   Overall, Tyr Tactical averaged three out of five stars.

   More critical reviews said the owner would tear into workers without
   knowing all the details of a situation and play favorites. Another
   review called Beck a visionary, but said his drive can create a toxic
   environment where people can be afraid to speak up.

   Michael Koncar, who worked at Tyr Tactical until 2019, said he was one
   of those favorites. But he ran into trouble when he decided to join the
   military. He delayed telling the company, he said, because he feared
   being fired.

   After he notified HR, Koncar said Beck pulled him into a meeting with
   other company leaders and screamed at him for what he guessed was five
   minutes, spewing profanities and calling him an emasculating
   expletive for not signing up for active duty military.

   Koncar said he returned to work the next week and was pulled into
   another meeting with Beck. In an audio recording of the meeting
   provided to The Republic, Beck can be heard explaining why he got
   angry.

   It wasn’t about Koncar joining the military, Beck explained in the
   recording, it was that he delayed telling the company. The way Beck saw
   it, Koncar had a future at the company, he said.

   Beck acknowledged the dispute to The Republic, but denied using the
   emasculating expletive and characterized Koncar as a disgruntled
   employee. Beck said any major issues he's had with employees were
   because they lied, stole or cheated.

   "Not everybody's always ethical, and I have a serious problem with
   that," he said.

   Koncar was fired a few months later. Beck said Koncar stole company
   property and illegally sold it online. Koncar said Beck allowed him and
   other employees to take leftover gear from Beck's former company.

   “It wasn’t stealing anything. It was like, ‘Hey, throw this away or
   take what you want.’ It was very clear that that was the intention,”
   Koncar told The Republic.

   In the podcast from 2019, Beck had said when he was young that he
   wanted stability and safety. But he didn’t understand what he was going
   through mentally.

   “It was more about, ‘Hey, you need to suck it up, be a hard ass in
   life.’ And I did. So that’s the way I handled things,” Beck said on the
   podcast. “It made me a very hard person to deal with. While I was there
   for my friends, I was a very loving person in some ways, I was a hard
   ass. And that probably still has a lot of stick to it still during
   these days.”

   Learn about the opposing candidate: A closer look into Peoria mayoral
   candidate Bridget Binsbacher

   Reach reporter Taylor Seely  at tseely@arizonarepublic.com or
   480-476-6116. Follow her on Twitter @taylorseely95 or Instagram
   @taylor.azc.
   Facebook Twitter Email

   Share your feedback to help improve our site!

     * Help
     * Terms of Service
     * Your California Privacy Rights/Privacy Policy
     * Privacy Policy
     * Site Map
     * Accessibility
     * Our Ethical Principles
     * Do Not Sell My Info/Cookie Policy

   [icon-instagram_24.png]
   © Copyright Gannett 2022
