   #RSS 2.0 RSS .92 Atom 0.3

   Tasting Table ×
     * NEWS
     * EXCLUSIVES
     * EAT
     * DRINK
     * COOK
     * RECIPES
     * CULTURE
     * ENTERTAIN
     * FEATURES
     *
     * About
     * Privacy Policy
     * Terms of Use

   © 2023 Static Media^®. All Rights Reserved
   Tasting Table
   Tasting Table
   The Creole Cocktail's Outsider Origins

   NEWS EXCLUSIVES EAT DRINK COOK RECIPES CULTURE ENTERTAIN FEATURES

The Creole Cocktail's Outsider Origins

   Creole Cocktail on bar Maximfesenko/Getty Images
   By Autumn Swiers/Dec. 1, 2022 4:01 pm EST

   When you think about New Orleans cuisine, dishes like Bouillabaisse,
   gumbo, crawfish, jambalaya, beignets, Po boys, or classic red beans and
   rice might come to mind. Mark Twain himself once famously said, "New
   Orleans food is as delicious as the less criminal forms of sin." But,
   what does the city offer to drink? Introducing, the Creole Cocktail:
   the New Orleans bevy you've probably never heard of.

   There's a version of the Creole Cocktail recipe printed in W.C.
   Whitfield's 1939 book "Just Cocktails," per The Spruce Eats, so folks
   have been enjoying it for a while. But, don't let the name deceive you
   — the Creole Cocktail didn't come from New Orleans. Ben Hatch, beverage
   director at New Orleans' Elysian Bar, says that hasn't stopped the
   cocktail from enjoying wild popularity amongst Louisiana sippers.

   "New Orleans is such a boozy town that people aren't afraid to pull up
   a bar stool when it's 110 degrees outside," says Hatch, via PUNCH.
   "They order a very spirit-forward cocktail like this and enjoy it just
   as much."

   So, what exactly are the Creole Cocktail's outsider origins? And how
   did it come to be associated with The Big Easy?

The spirit of The Big Apple in The Big Easy

   Person serving a Creole Cocktail Maximfesenko/Getty Images

   According to Neal Bodenheimer, author of "Cure: New Orleans Drinks and
   How to Mix 'Em" via PUNCH, the Creole Cocktail was created by a New
   York City-based mixologist called Hugo Ensslin. Ensslin immigrated to
   NYC from Germany, and the Big Apple had at least as much influence on
   Ensslin's creation as New Orleans, says Bodenheimer. The Creole
   Cocktail is equal parts rye whiskey and sweet vermouth, stirred with
   Bénédictine and Amer Picon.

   The most "New Orleans" thing about the drink, says the outlet, is the
   French Bénédictine and Amer Picon ingredients. Bénédictine is a spiced,
   herbal liqueur with top notes of citrus and pine. Amer Picon is a
   mildly bitter liqueur that's wicked popular among French mixologists,
   says David Lebovitz, and it's nearly impossible to get outside of
   France. If you're struggling to get it yourself, Saveur recommends
   substituting a dash or two of Angostura bitters for Amer Picon.

   These French liqueurs narrowly separate the Creole Cocktail from the
   classic Manhattan cocktail, which aligns with Ensslin's alleged
   subliminal piety to New York City. But, his creation is nearly
   indistinguishable from the lesser-known Brooklyn Cocktail, which
   features rye whiskey, sweet vermouth, maraschino, and Amer Picon, per
   Liquor.com. The lineup of ingredients is almost identical — which, we
   guess, means the Creole Cocktail must be a pretty fail-safe drink for
   mixologists to keep in their back pockets.
   Recommended
