   Content
   Skip to Main ContentAccessibility Help
   (BUTTON) Menu
   ____________________When search suggestions are available use up and
   down arrows to review and enter to select.
   (BUTTON) Search
   (BUTTON)
   Search
   (BUTTON) Sign In

Quick Links

     * News
     * Sports
     * Radio
     * Music
     * Listen Live
     * TV
     * Watch

   (BUTTON)
     * news
     * Top Stories
     * Local
     * Climate
     * World
     * Canada
     * Politics
     * Indigenous
     * Opinion
     * The National
     * Business
     * Health
     * Entertainment
     * Science
     * CBC News Investigates
     * Go Public
     * About CBC News
     * Being Black in Canada
     * (BUTTON) More

   From outsider to insider: Cabinet minister Kris Austin on the year he
   went mainstream | CBC News Loaded
   New Brunswick

From outsider to insider: Cabinet minister Kris Austin on the year he went
mainstream

   Kris Austin says he has not changed, but the politics surrounding him
   have — and the New Brunswick cabinet minister believes they’re moving
   in his direction.

Social Sharing

People’s Alliance founder turned PC minister says his goals and strategy have
not changed

   Jacques Poitras · CBC News · Posted: Dec 06, 2022 6:00 AM AT | Last
   Updated: December 6
   A man wearing a suit is forward-facing. A woman stands behind him
   holding a recorder.
   Kris Austin said he is pragmatic about what he can achieve as part of a
   mainstream political party. (Jacques Poitras/CBC)
   (BUTTON)
   comments

   Kris Austin says he has not changed, but the politics surrounding him
   have — and he believes they're moving in his direction.

   The former People's Alliance leader's defection to the Progressive
   Conservatives in March was a stunning moment in New Brunswick politics
   this year.

   But he argues it made sense given his goal remains the same in 2022 as
   it was when he founded the Alliance in 2010: to nudge the party system
   into giving New Brunswickers a sharper contrast and a clearer choice.

   "I think there needs to be a separate distinct ideology between the two
   [mainstream political parties], and back then I didn't see it quite
   like I do today," the Fredericton-Grand Lake MLA and minister of public
   safety said during an in-depth interview with CBC News.
   Austin said he understands how his switch from the Alliance upset many
   supporters. (Jacques Poitras/CBC)

   "Today I feel there is a little more of a difference between the two,
   and I think we played a part in that, which I think is good and
   positive in the long term."

   Now, as a member of an internal PC government working group studying
   how to update the Official Languages Act, he's an even more polarizing
   figure than he was as leader of a small populist party.

   In a wide-ranging 45-minute discussion, Austin said he is pragmatic
   about what he can achieve as part of a mainstream political party.

   But this is still better than irrelevance, he said.

Winning some battles better than opposition

   "Maybe you win 50 per cent of the time, maybe you win 70 per cent of
   the time," he said.

   "The alternative was to sit in the opposition and win none of the time
   and not be able to see any change in New Brunswick that you want to
   see."

   Austin said he understands how his switch from the Alliance, which he
   made with fellow party MLA Michelle Conroy, upset many supporters.
   [michelle-conroy.jpg]
   Michelle Conroy announced her move to the Tories on March 30, along
   with Austin. (Jacques Poitras/CBC)

   "They were very passionate over the years, and I know some of them are
   disappointed in the decision I made," he said.

   "It's about effectiveness. How do we be effective and how do we really
   make change? Otherwise I feel like we're just wasting time. And I'm not
   one for wasting time."

No 'ultimatums' on language law changes

   What kind of influence Austin will have on an update to the Official
   Languages Act has emerged as a key question for many francophones leery
   of his position on bilingualism.

   He has long insisted he supports official bilingualism but questions
   some aspects of its implementation — a disingenuous distinction in the
   eyes of Acadian activists.

   Liberal and Green MLAs want him removed from the internal working
   group, worried he'll weaken institutions created to protect
   minority-language francophone rights.
     * Austin faces tough questions on language at PC party meeting

     * Premier defends decision to put Kris Austin on languages committee

   Austin believes the post of commissioner of official languages, created
   in 2002, and the two language-based health authorities, established in
   2008, are not needed to meet the goal of the original 1969 Official
   Languages Act: equal service to the public in both languages.

   Last month, his cabinet colleague Daniel Allain said keeping those
   institutions was "non-negotiable" for him as a francophone, and he'd
   vote against any move to eliminate them.

   Austin said he will not draw any similar lines in the sand.

   "Whatever government decides as a whole, you're part of government," he
   said. "I don't like to operate on ultimatums."
   WATCH | Kris Austin on his 'lines in the sand' on language:

Cabinet minister Kris Austin talks about his role in revising the Official
Languages Act

   25 days ago
   Duration 2:24
   Kris Austin sat down for an in-depth interview about his time as
   People’s Alliance leader and his move to the Progressive Conservatives.

Austin founded Alliance after losing PC nomination

   Austin ran for the PC nomination in the riding of Grand Lake-Gagetown
   for the 2010 election.

   He lost, and rather than stick with the party and wait for another
   opportunity, he founded the Alliance.

   "I wanted to do something new. I wanted to do something that I felt
   would give more openness to the political spectrum."

   The PCs and Liberals had become "a little too similar," in his view. He
   felt voters needed a distinct right-of-centre option.

   The early years were a slog, with few encouraging signs — until the
   2014 election.

Narrow 2014 loss encouraged him to press on

   In that campaign he came within 25 votes of winning the new
   Fredericton-Grand Lake riding.

   "I think it would have been different if I had lost with a much larger
   margin. It was really that 25-vote spread that told me that we can
   continue to build and see some growth."

   By 2018 several language-rights controversies were brewing, including a
   cut in work hours for a unilingual commissionaire at the government's
   Chancery Place office building and a number of bilingual paramedic
   positions that couldn't be filled.
   [kris-austin.JPG]
   In 2014, the Alliance won three seats, including Austin's. He said
   there's no denying language issues played a role. (Catherine
   Allard/Radio-Canada)

   The Alliance won three seats, including Austin's.

   He said there's no denying language issues played a role in the
   breakthrough.

   "Pretty much everybody" supports the idea of bilingualism, Austin said,
   but Alliance voters didn't want it implemented in a way that would
   "leave anybody out in the cold."

Liberals 'aggressively' sought Alliance support in 2018, Austin says

   The Liberals lost their majority in that election and won one fewer
   seat than the PCs. Premier Brian Gallant tried to hang on to power,
   convening the legislature in the hopes of winning a confidence vote
   with the support of smaller parties.

   Gallant worked "aggressively" to win him over, Austin revealed.

   "There was no hard offer on the table but the door was always open, you
   know," he said. "'Should you decide to at least open the door to that,
   we could talk about different things.'"
     * Cardy says several PC MLAs oppose Austin's role on language
       committee

     * Top Acadian minister outlines 'non-negotiable' stance on
       bilingualism

   Many Liberal MLAs elected with Gallant in 2018 now want Premier Blaine
   Higgs to drop Austin from the language law working group.

   The Alliance voted against the Liberals, leading to the defeat of their
   government and Higgs's ascent to the premier's office — with Austin
   holding the balance of power.

Alliance worked quietly to influence PC policy

   Austin adopted a quiet approach to take advantage of his leverage and
   advance his agenda.

   At a 2019 public accounts committee meeting, officials from Ambulance
   New Brunswick said no ambulance had ever been taken out of service
   because of a lack of bilingual paramedics.

   Austin was at the committee session but opted not to use the forum to
   challenge the officials or ask questions on the issue.

   Similarly, he never introduced a bill to amend the Official Languages
   Act.

   Drafting a bill would require a lot of specialized expertise from a
   party still learning the ropes at the legislature, he explained.

   He preferred to work behind the scenes with Higgs to get Medavie Health
   Services to reorganize the ambulance service to address vacancies. The
   government also reclassified paramedic positions, which gave them
   higher pay.

2020 setback left Austin at 'crossroads' about party's future

   Despite those successes, the Alliance suffered two setbacks in the next
   election in 2020: one of its three MLAs was defeated, and the PCs
   gained a majority.

   "I was at this crossroads," Austin said.

   The party's leverage was gone. At the same time, donations and members
   were dropping off, in part, Austin believes, because voters saw the PCs
   under Higgs adopting some Alliance policies.

   "One of the key elements for me was, 'What is the current government
   doing?' and 'If they're doing a lot of what we're saying, why are we
   doing what we're doing?'" he said. "Why can't we just join that and try
   to be a part of that and see growth in New Brunswick?"
   WATCH | Kris Austin on his transformation from political outsider to
   insider:

Kris Austin explains how he’s taking his populist approach into the political
mainstream.

   25 days ago
   Duration 2:35
   The founder of the People’s Alliance says he’s succeeded in giving New
   Brunswickers a clearer choice when they cast their ballots.

   Austin also said he was exhausted after 12 years travelling the
   province as a party leader, giving up precious family time.

   He and Conroy announced their move to the Tories on March 30.

No promise of cabinet post when he defected to PCs, Austin says

   Defecting to the PCs meant Austin lost the $19,750 salary he got as
   leader of an official party in the legislature on top of his $85,000
   annual MLA pay.
   [education-minister-dominic-cardy-sept-2-2021.jpg]
   Dominic Cardy recently tweeted that Austin told education officials he
   met in the spring that he would not support 'anything that forces
   French down people's throats.' (CBC/Facebook)

   He made the jump without any promise from Higgs of a cabinet position
   and salary down the road, he said.

   "There was no commitment to say, 'Look, this is what I want' and 'This
   is what you're going to get.' I did say, 'I want to be a part of this,
   not just on the outside looking in.' But there was no hard commitment."

   Austin said he and Conroy got a "very cordial" welcome from the PC
   caucus, including ministers Daniel Allain and Dominic Cardy, despite
   clear disagreements on key issues.

   "Even with Minister Allain, we've had discussions and I feel no
   animosity, personal or otherwise, with him, and I hope he doesn't."

Says he wants to improve his French-language skills

   Cardy recently tweeted that Austin told education officials he met in
   the spring that he would not support "anything that forces French down
   people's throats."

   Austin said he doesn't remember saying that. He said he told officials
   he did not want increased French instruction for non-immersion students
   coming at the expense of math, science and "some of the other basics."

   In October, Austin was sworn into cabinet as public safety minister.
   [daniel-allain.jpg]
   Daniel Allain and Austin have had discussions, Austin said, and 'I feel
   no animosity, personal or otherwise with him, and I hope he doesn't.'
   (Jacques Poitras/CBC via Legislature livestream)

   The rookie minister said he now hopes to improve his own French skills.

   "That is something I do want to work on. There's no question learning a
   second language is a difficult task, especially the older you get.… But
   I acknowledge I do have to do a little bit better in terms of at least
   getting some basic understanding of the language."

   He also wouldn't rule out running for the PC leadership someday.

   "I leave all options on the table. I don't want to box myself in one
   way or the other."

'My objective was accomplished'

   Reflecting on the last 12 years, the one-time populist outsider
   believes he has moved the PCs to a place where there is now a "clear
   distinction" with the Liberals.

   "I think my objective was accomplished to a certain degree in that
   regard."

   Still, he doesn't feel he needs a clear win on language policy, one of
   his old party's signature issues, to prove his point.

   He believes he, Allain and others on the language working group can
   reach a consensus everyone can accept — but that still bears his
   imprint.

   "This is about how do we find that middle ground? How do I ensure that
   at least some of my ideas on public policy, whatever it is, can be
   brought to table and be part of that change?" he said.

   "Again, you're not going to win every battle, but I know that I'm more
   effective where I am now than where I would be had I not made this
   move."

ABOUT THE AUTHOR

   Jacques Poitras

   Provincial Affairs reporter

   Jacques Poitras has been CBC's provincial affairs reporter in New
   Brunswick since 2000. He grew up in Moncton and covered Parliament in
   Ottawa for the New Brunswick Telegraph-Journal. He has reported on
   every New Brunswick election since 1995 and won awards from the Radio
   Television Digital News Association, the National Newspaper Awards and
   Amnesty International. He is also the author of five non-fiction books
   about New Brunswick politics and history.

   CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News
   Corrections and clarifications|Submit a news tip| (BUTTON) Report error

CBC Newsletters

   Add some “good” to your morning and evening.

   A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.
   Sign up now

Comments

   To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last
   names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online
   communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities).
   Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted.

   By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce
   and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC
   chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed
   in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our
   Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the
   right to close comments at any time.

Become a CBC Member

   Join the conversation  Create account

   Already have an account?

Footer Links

My Account

     * Profile
     * CBC Gem
     * Newsletters
     * About CBC Accounts

Connect with CBC

     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * YouTube
     * Instagram
     * Mobile
     * RSS
     * Podcasts

Contact CBC

     * Submit Feedback
     * Help Centre

   Audience Relations, CBC
   P.O. Box 500 Station A
   Toronto, ON
   Canada, M5W 1E6

   Toll-free (Canada only):
   1-866-306-4636

About CBC

     * Corporate Info
     * Sitemap
     * Reuse & Permission
     * Terms of Use
     * Privacy
     * Jobs
     * Our Unions
     * Independent Producers
     * Political Ads Registry
     * AdChoices

Services

     * Ombudsman
     * Corrections and Clarifications
     * Public Appearances
     * Commercial Services
     * CBC Shop
     * Doing Business with Us
     * Renting Facilities
     * Radio Canada International

Accessibility

   It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all
   Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive
   challenges.

   Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows
   offered on CBC Gem.
     * About CBC Accessibility
     * Accessibility Feedback

     *
     * ©2022 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved.
     * Visitez Radio-Canada.ca

   (BUTTON)

   now
