     * Home
     * TV Features
     * 'Andor' Highlights What Being an Outsider Means

                'Andor' Highlights What Being an Outsider Means

   By Emily Kavanagh
--
   language and culture, and a family of his own. For the beginning of his
   life, Cassian quite literally existed outside the Star Wars world we
   know and love. But his status as an outsider ignorant to the larger
   plights of the galaxy does not last long. After he’s whisked away from
   his home in a bid to save him from Imperial forces, he’s forced into
--
   consequences of it.

   Cassian Andor is an outsider in a different way than most of the other
   Star Wars protagonists we’ve encountered. Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill)
   feels like an outsider at the start but his bloodline and use of the
   Force make it clear that that outsider status was only ever going to be
   temporary. Even the Mandalorian, Dinn Djarin (Pedro Pascal), lacks some
   outsider status due to his place within the Mandalorians and his
   familial bond with Grogu. These kinds of people have direct connections
   to the Jedi and the Empire in a way that makes it almost impossible for
   them to not get involved. But Cassian isn’t called to great purpose
   through destiny or connection, he chooses it. As an outsider, he had no
   choice but to be brought into the world of the Empire and everything it
   entails but without any firm connections to it, Cassian is also able to
   navigate the world differently than many others.

Being an Outsider for Andor Leaves You On the Outskirts of Community

   andor-season-1-episode-3-diego-luna-social-feature Image via Disney+

   Being an outsider can entail a lot of things and as we see with
   Cassian, there are a lot of negatives that can come from that. Being an
   outsider makes others suspicious of you. There’s a sense of safety
   found in commonalities so when differences are detected they can become
   an unjust cause for targeting. In the very first scene of the show,
--
   Tomm (James McArdle) who eyes Cassian with suspicion and even tips off
   the Pre-Mor officers to his whereabouts. We see through Andor how being
   an outsider can put one in a particularly vulnerable position where
   they can easily be made into a victim or a perpetrator just through
   means of survival.

   His status as an outsider means Cassian is often in constant danger
   because he is not only beholden to his own actions but also to how they
   may be perceived by others. But this outsider status is not without its
   merits. Others who find themselves on the fringes like Bix or Maarva
   (Fiona Shaw) will band together with Cassian despite or even because of
   his differences because there is a sense of solidarity in that
   struggle. People who live on the fringes of society must work together
   to ensure their survival. Cassian may be an outsider, but he’s not a
   soldier yet and so the civilians, knowingly or not, help him to evade
   the Pre-Mor.

   There’s also undoubtedly value in differences, in the perspective of an
   outsider, something Luthen (Stellan Skarsgård) seems to believe in
   particular as he went out of his way to recruit Cassian.

--
   Their Influences

Cassian Uses His Status as Outsider to His Advantage

   andor-episode-3-cassian-luthen-social-featured Image via Disney+
--
   underestimating you, it can be easy to fade into the shadows or become
   jaded, but it’s his connections to others on the fringes and his
   determination to find his sister, another outsider, that gives him this
   different way of navigating the world. If he’s unable to achieve his
   goals through conventional means, he’ll use back channels and that’s
   what makes him particularly qualified to be a rebel spy.

   Being an outsider may attract the attention of the in-crowd, but it
   also draws the attention of other outsiders. The Imperial officers may
   have shot at the Kenari on sight but Maarva goes out of her way to save
   Cassian because she knows he’ll be killed if more officers show up.
   Some people will see outsiders not as a danger but as unwitting
   participants in something beyond their control. Cassian finds
   friendship, support, and solidarity in the connections he makes with
--
   formation of the Rebel Alliance on a microscale. People who have been
   subjugated by the Empire joining hands and operating outside of
   established channels. Outsiders are, by nature, a threat to the status
   quo and when they band together they’re capable of a reckoning.

   Andor offers us insight into what being an outsider means. It’s a
   dangerous and vulnerable position but also makes the outsiders
   themselves a danger. They’re able to see things more clearly from the
   outside and subvert assumptions to their own ends whether that be
   something as simple as sneaking onto ships to steal parts or as
   complicated as helping take down the Empire. Outsiders are a threat
   because they aren’t beholden to the status quo, in fact, they’re often
   victims of it like Cassian, and this puts them in a unique position to
   see the world for what it is and enact change. In coming episodes,
   we’ll likely see just what an “outsider” is capable of as we watch
   Cassian transform from someone struggling to stay alive to the
   hard-headed rebel we know from Rogue One.
