   Disciplines Sociology Immigration & Emigration

   Citizen Outsider by Jean Beaman
     * Download cover image >
     * Create a flier for this title >
--
Open Access

Citizen Outsider Children of North African Immigrants in France

     * by Jean Beaman (Author)
--
   While portrayals of immigrants and their descendants in France and
   throughout Europe often center on burning cars and radical
   Islam, Citizen Outsider: Children of North African Immigrants in
   France paints a different picture. Through fieldwork and interviews in
   Paris and its banlieues, Jean Beaman examines middle-class and upwardly
--
   related to the American Sociological Association conference from August
   11 – 14 in Philadelphia. #ASA18 #ScholarActivist By Jean Beaman, author
   of Citizen Outsider: Children …
   Read More >
   <Books on Racial Theory, Analysis, and Politics in Trump America at SSS
--

     "Beaman offers a rich and stringent critique of the continued
     marginalization of French citizens deemed “outsiders” due
     to their race or ethnicity. ... This book is an excellent case study
     of race and immigration in France, suitable for scholars of race and
--
     Beaman delivers a sophisticated yet accessible comprehension of why
     the children of North African immigrants in France grow up to be
     citizen outsiders."—Social Forces

     "A methodologically sound, illuminating text that contributes to the
--
     at the global level."—Teaching Sociology

     "A well-crafted intervention, Citizen Outsider complicates
     discourses surrounding assimilation, integration, and European
     racial politics. . . . Discussions of migration sometimes shy away
--
     the topic."—European Journal of Cultural and Political Sociology

   "Citizen Outsider takes place in a new thread of research on
   multicultural France. It's a fantastic journey into the minority
   experience of socially upwardly mobile North Africans. It uncovers the
--
   Identity: Immigration and Belonging in North America and Western Europe

   "Jean Beaman's Citizen Outsider offers a trenchant analysis of the
   racial exclusions, indignities, and injustices experienced by French
   citizens of color. Distinguishing between formal and cultural
--
   significantly short of social belonging or acceptance. She traces the
   historical and material conditions underpinning the resulting racial
   tensions and political unsettlements. Citizen Outsider provides a
   compelling account of the social structures and expressions of racism
   in France today—and their individual and community resistances."—David
--
   Association and author of Racism without Racists: Color-Blind Racism
   and the Persistence of Racial Inequality in America
   "Citizen Outsider brilliantly illuminates the significance of
   ethnoracial origins in France, a society whose national identity denies
   their importance. This book is essential reading for anyone who wants
--
   Blackness
   Conclusion: Sacrificed Children of the Republic?
   Methodological Appendix: Another Outsider: Doing Race from/in Another
   Place
   Notes
