       curiosity about space!

   outsider art
   (BUTTON) Table of Contents
   outsider art
   (BUTTON)
     * Introduction
--
   Home Visual Arts

outsider art

   (BUTTON) Actions
--
   Facebook Twitter
   URL
   https://www.britannica.com/art/outsider-art
   (BUTTON) Give Feedback
   (BUTTON) External Websites
--
   revise the article.
   External Websites
     * Art Encyclopedia - Outsider Art

   (BUTTON) Print
--
   Facebook Twitter
   URL
   https://www.britannica.com/art/outsider-art
   (BUTTON) Feedback (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) External Websites
--
   revise the article.
   External Websites
     * Art Encyclopedia - Outsider Art

   Alternate titles: modern primitive art
--
   See all related content →

   outsider art, synonymous until the 1980s with art brut, any work of art
   produced by an untrained idiosyncratic artist who is typically
   unconnected to the conventional art world—not by choice but by
   circumstance. The “classic” figures of outsider art were socially or
   culturally marginal figures. They were usually undereducated; they
   almost invariably embraced unconventional views of the world, sometimes
--
Definition of terms

   Outsider art goes by many names, and the definition of terms is and has
   always been controversial. One of the most famous collections of this
   art, the Collection de l’Art Brut in Lausanne, Switz., was amassed by
--
     impulses.

   The term outsider art was introduced into the lexicon in 1972 by
   British writer Roger Cardinal as an English-language equivalent of the
   French art brut. By the 1980s, however, the term had expanded to
--
   all, Henry Darger, a janitor from Chicago whose more-than-15,000-page
   illustrated novel In the Realms of the Unreal came to public notice
   only after his death. Outsider art further benefited from the addition
   at the end of the 20th century of figures such as the impressive fibre
   artist Judith Scott, who had Down syndrome and was deaf; Dwight
--
History and characteristics

   Outsider art had its origins in the psychiatric collections of
   19th-century European psychiatric hospitals. The works in these
   collections were solicited from patients and organized for the purpose
--
   books on the subject: Swiss psychiatrist Walter Morgenthaler’s A Mental
   Patient as Artist (1921), which provided the first monograph of an
   outsider artist, Adolf Wölfli, a long-term patient whose oeuvre the
   Surrealist writer André Breton considered one of the three or four best
   of the 20th century; and the German psychiatrist and art historian Hans
--
   deep connections with culture outside the psychiatric hospital, both
   before and after their confinement, that were formative in their
   artwork and important aspects of its content. For other outsider
   artists, such as Howard Finster or Bill Traylor, it has long been
   agreed that content and context were uppermost in their work.
--
   proselytizing and storytelling impulse of the artist.

   One of the threads connecting the groups within the outsider art
   category is the tendency of the artists to be “straight talking” (even
   if that talk is straight from a radically different worldview).
   Outsider art used to be seen as a kind of evolutionary prototype for
   much of Modernist practice, but, considered by itself, it was valued
   for its essential difference from that practice. By the early 2000s the
   work of outsiders could often look like an awkward version of what
   Dubuffet scathingly called the “usual art”—that is, the accepted and
   acceptable production of the contemporary mainstream. The confusion was
   more likely to result from “outsiderish” trends among trained artists
   than from any wish of outsiders to conform. Because outsider art tends
   to concern itself primarily with its message, the works often seemed
   more readily accessible and visually coherent to viewers than did those
--

   While the Surrealists, according to their general practice of
   transgressing cultural boundaries, tended to show outsider art in the
   company of their own work, exhibitions of outsider art were otherwise
   restricted to specialist galleries and museums, such as the Collection
   de l’Art Brut in Lausanne, Switz.; the Aracine Musée d’Art Brut (Gagny)
--
   United States, the American Folk Art Museum and the Galerie St.
   Etienne, both in New York City, and the Phyllis Kind Gallery in
   Chicago. Occasional outsider art exhibitions in mainstream galleries,
   such as Dubuffet’s 1967 "Art Brut" at the Musée des Arts Décoratifs in
   Paris or the 1979 "Outsiders: An Art Without Precedence or Tradition"
   at the Hayward Gallery in London, only served to reinforce the sense of
   separation from the contemporary mainstream.
--
   the California psychiatric hospital where he was a patient for the
   greater part of his adult life. Though long known among those
   interested in outsider art, his works were thus introduced to a much
   wider U.S. audience. The New York Times described the exhibit as “one
   of the best shows of the season” and went so far as to declare Ramírez
--

   The showing of Ramírez’s work confirmed a general move since the
   mid-1990s toward the wider acceptance of outsider art into mainstream
   galleries and museums and a recognition of its worthiness for serious
   art-world attention on its own terms. Other notable examples include
   exhibitions in 2005 at Kiasma, Helsinki’s museum of contemporary art,
   and at the Académie Royale des Beaux-Arts in Brussels. On the whole,
   however, outsider art continued to circulate among an international
   spread of specialist dealers, collectors, and galleries, and an annual
   New York Outsider Art Fair was established in 1992, attracting dealers
   from the United States, Europe, and Asia.

   A landmark exhibition of outsider, or “vernacular,” environments,
   “Sublime Spaces and Visionary Worlds,” was held in 2007–08 at the John
   Michael Kohler Arts Center in Sheboygan, Wis. Such environments are an
   important part of the range of outsider art. Often significant in size
   and invariably the result of the compulsive vision and tireless work of
   a single individual (though occasionally helped by others later on),
