
   Home / Cities / Chandigarh News / College campuses, students and
   outsiders: three’s a crowd

   Read this news in brief form. Click here X

College campuses, students and outsiders: three’s a crowd

   chandigarh news
--

Often canvassing support for one political outfit or the other ahead of PU’s
student polls, outsiders at have become a bit of an eyesore for the students
at Chandigarh colleges

   Leadind up to Panjab University Campus Student Council (PUCSC) polls,
   the occurrence of outsiders making their way on to college campuses
   across Chandigarh have shot up. (HT Filr) Leadind up to Panjab
   University Campus Student Council (PUCSC) polls, the occurrence of
   outsiders making their way on to college campuses across Chandigarh
   have shot up. (HT Filr)
   (BUTTON) Follow Us
--
   As campus politics heat up in the run up to the Panjab University
   Campus Student Council (PUCSC) polls, chances of one running into an
   outsider on the college campuses across the city have also shot up.

   Often canvassing support for one political outfit or the other, they
--
   crowds, the speeding cars, the odd fights and arguments that break.

   At Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College, Sector 32, outsiders
   have also disrupted normalcy. Chirag Batra and Nikhil Bansal, both
   enrolled at the college, say many students feel that outsiders are
   crowding the campus even as the outfits based out of their own college
   are treated unfairly.

   “College authorities misbehaved with the college’s own parties. A
   recent three-hour protest to disallow outsiders from campus saw several
   students not involved in politics participate. Student elections do not
   bring around a lot of change, and we don’t want to see brawls and
--
   Indian National Students Organisation (INSO) leader from DAV-10,
   Aashish Phogat says authorities need to toughen up the act against
   outsiders, “While checking ID proof at the entrance is a must, in case
   there is any suspicion there is a server room right besides the gate
   where the roll number of a student can be checked to verify the
--
   with crowd control. DAV-10 principal Pawan Sharma says, “We have hired
   four bouncers for the election period. Nobody is allowed to enter the
   campus without photo ID proof as we have had problems with outsiders
   instigating the students in the past.”

   The problems are more complex for all-girls colleges. Principal of the
   girls’ college in Sector 42, Nisha Aggarwal said, “From Wednesday,
   entry for outsiders had been strictly banned. Boys especially are not
   allowed inside the campus, and the students must carry their ID cards
   with them to enter.”
--
   Another city college principal, not wishing to be named, meanwhile,
   offered a quick reminder that while college authorities are trying
   their best to keep a check on outsiders, the UT administration must
   chip in with support to help keep campuses conducive for its students.
   SHARE THIS ARTICLE ON
