     * (BUTTON) Menu

   The Outsider

The Outsider

   Paul M. Sniderman
--
   Sociology

The Outsider: Prejudice and Politics in Italy

     * Paul M. Sniderman, Pierangelo Peri, Rui J.P. de Figueiredo Jr., and
--

   One of the most wide-ranging studies of prejudice undertaken in a
   decade, The Outsider combines new research methods and rich analysis to
   upend many of our assumptions about prejudice. Noting that hostility
   toward immigrants has been on the rise throughout Western Europe, Paul
--
   alternatively, to spring from real competition over material goods or
   social status, or yet again, to follow in the wake of a quest for
   identity. It is the distinctive effort of The Outsider to develop a
   unified theory of prejudice integrating personality, realistic
   conflict, and social identity approaches.
--
   internally, between Northern and Southern Italians. The book’s findings
   show that any point of difference — color, nationality, or language —
   marks the immigrant as an outsider. The fact of difference, not the
   particular mode of difference, is crucial. Moreover, the general
   election of 1994 provided a rare opportunity to investigate the
--
   Analyzing the contributions of personality, social-structural factors,
   and political orientation to the wave of intolerance toward immigrants,
   The Outsider offers unprecedented insights into the phenomenon of
   prejudice and its link to politics.
   Paul M. Sniderman is Professor of Political Science at Stanford
--
   increase prejudice."—Robert D. Putnam

   "The Outsider makes a landmark contribution to our understanding of
   prejudice. Analysts of public opinion, electoral behavior, party
   competition, and ethnicity in the United States and Europe will find
--
   research is magisterial. The book does more than trace the roots of
   hostility toward immigrants in Italy: it illuminates the bases of
   democratic political life. The Outsider is an extraordinarily
   satisfying work of social science."—Carol Mershon, University of
   Virginia

   "The Outsider is an extraordinary book that will be of interest to
   students of politics as well as race and ethnicity. It bears comparison
   to Robert Putnam's Making Democracy Work."—Mabel Berezin, University of
