   Innovation

How Outsiders Become Game Changers

   Research identifies four factors behind their success.
--
   Summary.

   Coco Chanel, Steve Jobs, and Katalin Karikó were outsiders who defied
   the odds and produced revolutionary innovations. How do such outsiders
   succeed when so many others fail? The authors’ research uncovered four
   factors: (1) The outsiders were not outliers; they belonged to the
   system but hadn’t lost touch with its fringes. (2) An outsider had at
   least one insider who was willing to vouch for his or her ideas or
   abilities. (3) Outsiders leveraged “fracture points” — such as the
   death of a major gatekeeper. (4) Instead of just viewing their
   innovation as a technical challenge, they see it as a marketing
--
   Ler em português

   Every once in a while, an outsider comes along with a new vision or a
   new way of doing things that revolutionizes a scientific field, an
   industry, or a culture. Take the case of Katalin Karikó, who defied all
--
   qualitative techniques, large dataset analysis, and historical
   research, we have come up with four factors that explain the success of
   outsiders like Karikó. These factors do not have to be concomitant, and
   none is necessary, but each increases the odds substantially that an
   outsider will break through and their innovation will have a major
   impact.

1. Outsiders are not outliers.

   Our research suggests that successes like Karikó’s occur not just
   despite outsider status but because of it. Being less tied to the norms
   and standards to which insiders conform, outsiders recognize solutions
   that escape incumbents’ attention. Yet, the paradox is that the same
   social position that gives outsiders the perspective to pursue
   imaginative projects also constrains their ability to obtain support
   and recognition for their innovations. How do the innovations of
   outsiders like Karikó gain traction?

   The innovation pattern we observed in our research is very consistent.
   Outsiders typically innovate by acting on insights and experiences that
   are new to the context they enter but familiar to the context they come
   from. Consider Coco Chanel, the illegitimate daughter of a laundress
--
   stained-glass window of her orphanage, the Abbey of Aubazine.

   You would think that successful outsiders like Karikó and Chanel are
   statistical outliers, but we find this is not actually the case: In one
   of our studies, we analyzed the network of collaborations of
--
   describe Steve Jobs, when he first met him in the late 1970s. But
   neither were they “network kings” at the heart of their industry. The
   outsiders were not outliers: This study showed that the probability of
   creative success was highest in a border zone between the center and
   the periphery, by artists who belong to the system but have not lost
--
2. Behind every Steve Jobs is a Mike Markkula, a champion on the inside.

   Thinking like an outsider can have advantages, but practicing the way
   of the outsider is complicated. Outsiders are strangers. They do not
   hold élite positions, and they have limited resources and lack the
   credentials of better-connected people whose theories or practices they
   are challenging. Not surprisingly, they often stay locked outside.

   Our research suggests that the outsider needs at least one insider who
   is willing to vouch for their ideas or abilities. In collaboration with
   Paul Allison, a sociology professor at the University of Pennsylvania
--
   critics were more likely to praise peripheral artists than insiders.
   Conversely, industry peers are more likely to favor their fellow
   insiders. From the outsider’s perspective, this means that one
   effective strategy to gain traction is to identify an audience — a
   person or a group of people — that has a cognitive or emotional
   affinity for the outsider or their ideas (as well as the credibility
   that the outsider usually lacks).

   Steve Jobs’s early career is a case in point. The VC industry
--
   he needed to attract more talent and money.

3. “Fracture points” let outsiders in.

   A third way outsiders break in is by leveraging what we call “fracture
   points” — events that generate intense stress on the system. One
   particular class of fracture points that we have been investigating
--

   Most established organizations and industries tend to reproduce the
   power and privilege structure of incumbent groups, reducing outsiders’
   chances of making their ideas heard and proving their worth. But our
   research suggests that outsiders should not be daunted: The very traits
   that make outsiders so disadvantaged within established occupational
   structures and professional categories are often precisely those
   required for the pursuit of exceptional entrepreneurial achievements in
   art, science, and business.

   Often, extraordinary outsiders’ primary problem is not their ideas but
   selling those ideas, precisely because of their disruptive
   implications. As the late Clayton Christensen noted in his 1997 book
