
   Intereconomics / Volumes / 2022 / Number 5 / Goodbye China: What Do
   Fewer Foreigners Mean for Multinationals and the Chinese Economy?

   Articles
--
   Volume 57, 2022 · Number 5 · pp. 306–312 · JEL: J61, F23

Goodbye China: What Do Fewer Foreigners Mean for Multinationals and the
Chinese Economy?

--
   Globalization, Germany.

   The number of foreigners living in China is very low in international
   comparison and has further declined recently. While the strict
   COVID-19-related travel restrictions played a major role in this
--
   restrictions are lifted. Against this background, this article
   discusses the economic challenges that the reduction in the number of
   foreigners is causing for Western multinationals operating in China and
   to the Chinese economy more generally. The consequences could spill
   over to the world economy and reinforce economic and technological
--

   According to preliminary results of the 2020 National Census of China,
   there were 845,697 foreigners and an additional 584,998 residents of
   Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan – together 1,430,695 immigrants^1 – living
   in mainland China on 1 November 2020 (NBSC, 2021). This was a
   substantial increase of 410,550 immigrants (40.2%) compared to the
   previous Census of 2010. The increase was greater for foreigners
   (251,865; 42.4%) than for residents of Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan
   (158,685; 37.2%). Still, the total number of immigrants amounted to
   just 0.1% (and that of foreigners to just 0.06%) of China’s population
   of more than 1.41 billion people.^2 This is an exceptionally low share
   not only compared to Western countries such as the United States
--
   107,445 to 62,812), respectively. And, although the preliminary results
   of the 2020 Census published so far do not provide the numbers of
   foreigners for individual provinces, given the exceptional development
   of the number of immigrants in Yunnan, it can reasonably be assumed
   that the aggregate number of foreigners in the other 30 Chinese
   provinces has actually declined between 2010 and 2020 by roughly 80,000
   persons or about 14.5%, according to a back of the envelope
--
   number of immigrants had already left China and/or were unable to enter
   or return to China due to these strict travel restrictions. Given that
   foreigners, including expatriates from Western countries, have more
   likely been directly affected by these restrictions than residents from
   Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan, these restrictions have certainly
   contributed to the particularly strong decrease in the number of
   immigrants in Beijing and Shanghai, where the number of foreigners has
   been substantially higher than the number of residents from Hong Kong,
   Macao and Taiwan.^5

   Additionally, there is evidence showing that the decade-long increase
   in the number of foreigners living in China had already come to a halt
   or even reversed in China (outside Yunnan) several years before the
   COVID-19 pandemic. Take Shanghai, the most international city in China,
   as an example. While the number of foreigners increased substantially
   from 100,011 in 2005 to 174,192 persons in 2012 (roughly 8% annual
   growth rate); it only increased to 178,335 persons in 2015 (roughly
--
   regulatory framework for immigration in order to further its national
   development goals. It provides for an immigration policy that strongly
   differentiates the treatment of foreigners by their perceived benefits
   to the Chinese economy. While particularly highly skilled foreigners
   are wanted and welcome given their potential benefits for China’s
   economic development, the entry of illegal or less desirable foreigners
   and their stay in China are to be more strictly controlled and
   countered than before in the interest of national and social security.
--
   immigrants was not first established by the 2012 law. Already in 2004,
   the Measures for the Administration of Examination and Approval of
   Foreigners’ Permanent Residence in China gave preference to foreigners
   whose qualifications meet certain pre-determined criteria. In 2008, the
   Thousand Talents Program was initiated to actively attract highly
--
   still very high and the policy measures were carried out only
   selectively without comprehensive coordination and supplementary
   hands-on measures, their impact on attracting foreigners, especially
   those without an ethnic Chinese background, were rather limited (Wang,
   2012). Since the 2012 law, the scope of the related policies to attract
   high-skilled foreigners has become broader, reflecting President Xi
   Jinping’s repeated emphasis of the importance of these talents to
   support China’s innovation-driven economic development. The rules and
   regulations related to immigration were further consolidated and
   focused in favour of highly qualified foreigners with the introduction
   of the Permit for Foreigners to Work in China in 2015. This regulation,
   which was implemented nationwide in 2017, formally established a strict
   grading system for foreigners to help China more effectively attract
   international professionals in line with domestic demand.

--
   immigration service centres) have been implemented nationwide to
   encourage, support and facilitate foreign talent, outstanding young
   foreigners and overseas Chinese to start businesses, invest, innovate,
   study and work in China (Ministry of Public Security, 2019).

--
   facilitation of visas and residence approvals, China’s immigration
   policy has become overall more favourable for particularly high-skilled
   foreigners since 2012. By contrast, for most less skilled migrants,
   Chinese immigration policies have become rather more restrictive due to
   stricter enforcement of the restrictive entry and residence regulation
   for this group. At the same time, Chinese public attitudes towards
   foreigners have become more divided, and public resentment towards
   foreigners has been on the rise since about 2015 (Speelman, 2020).
   Against this background, in 2020 the announcement of a public
   consultation on the Regulations Governing the Permanent Residence of
   Foreigners, which is intended to better regulate and also ease
   foreigner’s permanent stay in China, met with strong headwinds and
   harsh criticism from the public. These strong public reactions,
   particularly on social media, even forced the responsible authorities
--

COVID-19-based travel restrictions and the decline in the number of
foreigners

   Since March 2020, China has implemented strict travel restrictions to
--

   As a consequence, the number of people, and in particular the number of
   foreigners, crossing China’s border decreased dramatically over the
   past two years. The number of border crossings by foreigners decreased
   from 97.7 million in 2019 to 13.2 million in 2020 and to a mere 4.5
   million (-95.4%) in 2021 (NIA, 2020, 2022). In light of these
   developments, the number of foreigners living in China has likely
   further declined since the reference date of the 2020 National Census
   (1 November 2020). And given the continuation of COVID-19-related
   restrictions and the COVID-19 outbreaks and related strict lockdowns
   in, for example, Jilin and Shanghai in spring 2022, it is likely that
   the number of foreigners living in China will decline even further in
   the near future. In a recent survey among foreigners in Shanghai
   conducted during the strict and long lockdown of the municipality in
   April 2022, 85% of the 950 respondents said that the lockdown has made
--

   The COVID-19-related travel restrictions and the associated decline in
   the number of foreigners in China have had significant negative
   consequences for many Western companies. Business surveys conducted by
   various chambers of commerce in China in 2021 have found that travel
--
   and AmCham Shanghai, 2022).

   In line with the general decline in the number of foreigners in China,
   the reduction in the number or share of foreign employees in many
   Western companies in China did not just start with the pandemic.
--
   be impeded by China’s continuing travel restrictions and recurring
   lockdowns, and in a more long-term perspective by a continuing decline
   in the number of foreigners in China.

   While the negative short-term economic effects of the strict travel
   restrictions and lockdowns are already apparent (NBSC, 2022), it is
   still too early to empirically assess the longer-term economic impact
   of fewer foreigners living in China. The general literature on the
   relation between immigration and trade, investment and innovation
   clearly suggests, however, that the reduced number of foreigners in
   China is likely to have a negative impact on China’s foreign trade and
   investment as well as on its innovation and growth.

   A large number of empirical studies have clearly confirmed that
   international migration and the presence of foreigners increase
   international trade and FDI (Hatzigeorgiou and Lodefalk, 2021).^8
   Immigrants boost demand for products or services from their home
--
   with increasing localisation of R&D activities of the multinationals.^9

   In light of these general findings, fewer foreigners living in China
   may mean that China misses opportunities to further intensify its
   international engagement via trade and investments, to speed up
--
   ones like Beijing and Shanghai, the number of immigrants has declined
   in 2020 compared to 2010. Over the more than two years of
   pandemic-related travel restrictions, the number of foreigners crossing
   China’s border has decreased dramatically and the number of foreigners
   permanently living in China has further declined. Given the
   continuation of strict COVID-19 restrictions, China’s selective and
   still quite restrictive migration policy, and the increasing resentment
   among the public toward foreigners, the number of foreigners living in
   China may well decline even further in the future.

--
   intensive trade and investment relations, is likely to be affected
   particularly strongly. The “people-to-people decoupling” spurred by
   travel restrictions and the declining number of foreigners in China
   more generally could become another amplifier of the more general
   economic and technological decoupling tendencies between China and the
--
   large.
     * 1 Immigrants in this paper include residents from Hong Kong, Macao
       and Taiwan as well as foreigners from outside the Greater China
       region living in mainland China.
     * 2 This figure refers to mainland Chinese living in China, i.e.
       excluding immigrants in mainland China.
     * 3 In Yunnan, the large majority of foreigners are migrant workers
       from neighbouring countries Vietnam, Myanmar and Laos, who have
       been attracted by large disparities in labour markets between
--
       Kong, Macao and Taiwan in Yunnan has grown at the same rate as for
       China as a whole (37.2%).
     * 5 In Beijing and Shanghai, the shares of foreigners were about
       84.8% and 68.8%, respectively, of the total number of immigrants in
       2010 (NBSC, 2012).
--
       but was postponed by two years in December 2021. The reform
       stipulated the elimination of tax exemptions for certain benefits
       for foreigners (e.g. for housing expenses, children’s education
       expenses, language training expenses and home leave expenses),
       which would have resulted in larger tax liabilities for many
--
       for countries that are less similar culturally and for less
       developed countries, where institutions are weaker and doing
       business with foreigners entails a higher degree of insecurity.
       Migrants may therefore be expected to have a particularly large
       impact on Western companies’ trade and investment relations with
--
   That’s Shanghai (2022), 85% of Shanghai Expats Rethinking Their Future
   in China,
   https://www.thatsmags.com/china/post/34336/survey-85-of-foreigners-reth
   inking-their-future-in-china (27 April 2022).

