   #The Haitian Times » Feed The Haitian Times » Comments Feed The Haitian
   Times » iCal Feed The Haitian Times » To some Haitians, another foreign
   military force would be “greatest humiliation” Comments Feed alternate
   alternate alternate alternate

   (BUTTON) Close

     * SIGN IN
     * SUBSCRIBE

   Search for: ____________________ (BUTTON) Search

     * Haiti News
     * Haiti Politics
     * New York
     * Florida
     * Haitian Diaspora
     * U.S. Politics
     * Event Calendar
     * Video

     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * Instagram
     * Youtube

   (BUTTON) Close

   Skip to content

   |

     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * Instagram
     * Youtube

   The Haitian Times

   The Haitian Times

   Bridging the gap

     * SIGN IN
     * SUBSCRIBE

   (BUTTON) Open Search
   Search for: ____________________ (BUTTON) Search
   (BUTTON) Menu

     * Haiti News
     * Haiti Politics
     * New York
     * Florida
     * Haitian Diaspora
     * U.S. Politics
     * Event Calendar
     * Video

     * TOPICS
     * Arts & Culture
     * Sports
     * Opinion
     * Business & Technology
     * Health & Science
     * Travel

   Home » Haiti » To some Haitians, another foreign military force would
   be “greatest humiliation”

   Posted inHaiti

To some Haitians, another foreign military force would be “greatest
humiliation”

   Avatar photo Avatar photo Avatar photo Avatar photo by Murdith Joseph,
   Juhakenson Blaise and Onz Chéry Oct. 12, 2022Oct. 12, 2022
   gas station Residents walking past a gas station in Port-au-Prince
   during a fuel shortage in September 2022. Photo by Marvens Compere for
   The Haitian Times

   PORT-AU-PRINCE — The Haitian government’s request for international
   military forces to stop the country’s humanitarian crisis and restore
   security has raised the ire of many Haitians who insist Haitian
   institutions should take the lead. Calling the crises a ploy to draw in
   foreign forces in the first place, some also vowed to protest anew
   against such measures.

   “We should chain the doors of all offices of public institutions until
   Prime Minister Ariel Henry leaves,” said Ebens Cadet, spokesperson of
   Nou Konsyan, an anti-corruption activist group in Port-au-Prince. “We
   should also gather in front of the different countries’ embassies in
   Haiti, including the United States, France and Canada, to make
   ourselves heard.”

   “We do not accept the presence of foreign forces on our territory,”
   Cadet said.

   Henry issued a formal appeal Oct.7 requesting the help of international
   armed forces to restore order in Haiti amid its spiraling economic,
   political and criminal crises, aggravated by the re-emergence of a
   cholera outbreak. The request document, signed by 19 members of Henry’s
   government, states the leaders are alarmed by the risk of a major
   humanitarian crisis partly caused by armed gangs and asks for “the
   immediate deployment of a specialized armed force, in sufficient
   quantity.”

   “It is imperative to restart activities to avoid a complete
   asphyxiation of the national economy,” the document states.

   To many Haitians, the request is a threat to Haiti’s sovereignty, an
   insult to Haitian people — the chief reasons among a litany cited
   against foreign military intervention.

   “This decision is a sham for the authorities to bring in a foreign
   force capable of helping them perpetuate their power since they cannot
   lead,” said Valery Voltaire, a Port-au-Prince social worker.

   Cliford Andrieux, a resident of Delmas, is among many in the
   Port-au-Prince neighborhood who strongly reject the idea of yet another
   international intervention.

   “Ariel Henry is a ‘national threat’ who must be dismissed as head of
   the country following his call for a foreign force on Haitian soil,”
   said Cliford Andrieux, resident of Delmas. “If we allow foreign forces
   to trample our territory, we can start calling ourselves worthless.”

   “The bandits who prevent the Haitian people from living are at the
   service of the inequality system,” he said. “We’d be wrong to believe
   that foreign forces will come and destroy the system.”

   Economist Etzer Emile is among those who believe in supporting Haitian
   institutions instead.

   Subscribe to The Haitian Times for the most comprehensive coverage of
   Haiti and the Haitian diaspora.
   SUBSCRIBE FOR UNLIMITED ACCESS

   “Instead of agreeing to strengthen the PNH, equip it, treat it well and
   grant it the freedom to do its job, our leaders preferred to protect
   and facilitate the gangs to create an unlivable situation where
   everyone gets desperate and ends up believing that only the whites can
   save us,” Emile said.

   Nicolas Joseph, a resident of Santo, feels similarly about supporting
   the Haitian police force over foreigners. However, he added, Haiti’s
   government must set up trade and job training programs for the most
   vulnerable and cut off the flow of ammunition and weapons into Haiti.

   “A foreign force on Haitian soil is not necessary,” Joseph said. “We
   need help in materials for the police so that they are well equipped to
   stop the gangs. We all know that the country has already known several
   foreign forces, but they have done more harm. After their departure,
   the insecurity spread like never before.”

   Over in the Northern Department, scores of residents are also against
   the military intervention and said it is part of a plan that will not
   benefit Haitians.

   “Military forces invading Haiti would be the greatest humiliation for
   us,” said Blondel Joseph, 55, a Saint-Raphael entrepreneur. “They [the
   international community] created the problems. They wanted to kick us
   to the ground so we don’t have a choice when they come into the country
   and rule it again.”

   Also, Joseph and some others, say United Nations Stabilization Mission
   in Haiti (MINUSTAH) soldiers were accused of rape, human trafficking,
   having sex with minors and other crimes during their time in Haiti.
   That’s a downside they would not want to see again.

   Others said a special armed force will not resolve the many issues
   Haiti is facing.

   “Certainly their presence will calm the climate and that is all. It
   will not change the problems facing the country,” Pierre Rubens Ernest
   said.

   If the request is granted, Haiti would be seeing the presence of
   foreign military forces for the fifth time in about 100 years: a United
   States occupation from 1915 to 1934; the U.S.-led Operation Uphold
   Democracy in 1994 to return Jean Bertrand Aristide to power; UN
   missions under various names between 1995 and 2000; and MINUSTAH from
   2004 to 2017.

   Fritz Alphonse Jean, the provisional president designated by the
   Montana Accord, said throughout the history of foreign interventions in
   Haiti, they have never achieved their objective.

   “It’s a national disgrace that in 2022, there are actors waiting with
   open arms for a military intervention,” Jean said in a youtube video
   released Oct. 7. “They are waiting for the foreigner instead of working
   to find a consensus to put the country on the path of progress and
   social peace.”

Related

   Tagged: Ariel Henry Haiti, Ebens Cadet Haiti, Haiti protests, invasion
   of Haiti, military intervention Haiti, Nou Konsyan Haiti
   Avatar photo Avatar photo

Murdith Joseph

   Genevieve@haitiantimes.com
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Murdith Joseph is a social worker and journalist. She studied at the
   State University of Haiti and Maurice Communication. She first worked
   as a journalist presenter and reporter for Radio Sans Fin (RSF) then as
   a journalist reporter for Radio tele pacific and writting for the daily
   Le National. Today she joined the Haitian Times team and covers the
   news in Port-Au-Prince-Haiti.
   More by Murdith Joseph
   Avatar photo Avatar photo

Juhakenson Blaise

   juhakenson@haitiantimes.com
     *
     *
     *

   I am Juhakenson Blaise, a journalist based in the city of
   Port-au-Prince, Haiti. I cover the news that develops in this city and
   deals with other subjects related to the experience of Haitians for the
   Haitian Times newspaper. I am also a lover of poetry.
   More by Juhakenson Blaise

Onz Chéry

   onz@haitiantimes.com
     *
     *
     *

   Email me at onz@haitiantimes.com
   Onz Chery is a Haiti correspondent for The Haitian Times. Chery started
   his journalism career as a City College of New York student with The
   Campus. He later wrote for First Touch, local soccer leagues in New
   York and Elite Sports New York before joining The Haitian Times in
   2019.
   More by Onz Chéry

Join the Conversation

   49 Comments
    1.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 12:45 pm
       Le Canada et Les Casques Bleu, L’ancien Premier Ministre Du Canada
       https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=toWwtg2DMeU
       Reply
    2.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 12:54 pm
       UN , There are people watching, this organization is a joke, an
       enabler of neo-colonists .
       The Visual History of the UN’s Blue Hemlets and their Interventions
       around the world since 1958.
       https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MbM9CEfFezE
       Reply
    3.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 1:03 pm
       Le resultat de Les Nations Unis . Il veulent retourner pour faire
       les meme choses.
       https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kbWsJlVQhYE
       Reply
    4.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 1:09 pm
       Seulement Les Militaires ont ete retire en Haiti en 2019 apres une
       demande des Etats Unis , La Force Binuh qui consiste de policiers
       etrangers reste en Haiti.
       https://binuh.unmissions.org/en
       Reply
    5.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 1:13 pm
       Footage of UN peacekeepers (Uruguayans )in Haiti and other
       countries with UN military missions.
       https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vkzhxii_8Po
       Copyright (AP(
       Reply
    6.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 1:38 pm
       L’autre pays concerne par les Nations Unis pour envoyers des Forces
       Armee dans L:affaire Soudan du Sud- Soudan Du Nord, Guerre Civil
       dans le Soudan Du Sud -Darfur, Instabilite, et les pays regionales
       et leur interets dans le Soudan comme L’egypte, La Lybie, Le Maroc,
       et le Mauritanie.
       Reply
    7.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 1:46 pm
       The US Army and The Military Mercenaries in Latin America:
       Case in Point :Costa Rica disbanded in favor of Armored and Secret
       Police Units.
       https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tj-TWVF2OQ0
       Reply
    8.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 2:02 pm
       Les Soldats Sri Lankais qui on cause le cholera en 2011 apres leur
       guerre contre Les Tamils de Elam. Les Nations Unix n’ont pas
       intervenu.
       y and history, the Tamil word used is ‘illankai.’ It was this wide
       usage of the term illankai and the understanding of its common
       origin that led to the approval of the term illankai in all the
       official documents. In fact, it could be argued that it was this
       welcome degree of understanding that enables the Tamils to identify
       themselves with this island as their country. The constitution of
       the day accepted the usage of this term.
       However, in recent times there is a demand to use the term Sri
       Lanka only and leaving out the term illankai.
       At least in the English media, ever since the late Mervyn de Silva
       with his characteristic journalistic flourish called the Tiger-led
       combat struggle against the state as the’Eelam war,’ the term eelam
       has gained an ominous significance to the Sinhala reader.
       In the minds of the Sinhala people, this word denotes separatism
       and is associated with L.T.T.E. attacks. The role of the mainstream
       Sinhala media in creating suspicion in the minds of the Sinhala
       people has been substantial.
       The absence of an institution which would help enable the fostering
       of understanding between the communities has only worsened the
       situation, and it’s also true that there had been no effort on the
       part of the Sri Lankan Tamils to communicate to the Sinhalese the
       real meaning of the terms they use.
       It is true that in the separatist demand made by all the militant
       organizations, the term Eelam is there, but it is a compound term
       with the qualifying word Tamil. Thus, the term is Tamil Eelam. In
       fact, TELO stands for Thamil Eelam Liberation Organization and the
       short in form L.T.T.E. stands for Liberation Tigers of Thamil
       Eelam.
       The operative part is Thamil Eelam and it means the Tamil part of
       Eelam. The term Eelam is a synonym for Sri Lanka and has been in
       use in Tamil literature right from the Cankam Period dating as far
       back as 200 B.C. to circa 250 A.D. Pattinapalai, a long poem of the
       Cankam period on Karikala the Chola king, refers to the various
       imports piled up at the Pukar harbour.
       Two of the commodities identified are ‘Eelathu Unavu’, ‘Kalakathu
       Akkaam.’ The first one means food from Sri Lanka, and the latter
       refers to products from Kaalakam (kedah). We do not know what the
       foodstuffs that were sent from Sri Lanka to the southeastern
       harbour city of Tamil Nadu.
       The Tamil- Brahmi inscriptions refer to an ‘Eelathu Kutumbikan,’
       meaning a householder from Eelam. Kutumbikan is the Tamil word for
       ‘gihi’ and therefore refers to a Buddhist. Incidentally, this
       reference indicates that there has been a free flow of Buddhists
       from Sri Lanka into Tamil Nadu and vice-versa.
       Later day Tamil inscriptions, especially one from the Chola period,
       refers to ‘Sinhalar Eella Mandilams,’ meaning the Eela regional
       unit of the Sinhalese. It is quite clear that the Sinhalese
       themselves had been associated with Eelam. It is a known fact Eelam
       constituted an administrative unit during the Chola period 1017 to
       1070 A.D.
       The term Eelam has cultural connotations and the first poet from
       Sri Lanka participating in the Cankam poetic gatherings was a poet
       call Eellathu Putan Thevan.
       To this day Sri Lankan Tamil literature is referred to as Eelathu
       Ilakkiyam. The contribution of the Muslims and Up-Country Tamils
       falls within the Tamil literature of Eelam. The Muslims are equally
       proud of the term as the Tamils are, especially when the reference
       is made to Sri Lankan Tamil Literature.
       It may come as a big shock to many to know of the etymology of the
       term Eelam. It is the opinion of learned Tamil scholars like the
       late Professor Kanapathipillai, that the term Eelam must have been
       derived from ‘Hela’. Thus in real terms eelam is an integral part
       of the helaurumaya (The hela heritage).
       When, after the 1972 constitution, the Federal Party was pushed
       toward the formation of the Tamil United Front and towards the
       declaration of a separate Tamil country, the term Tamil Eelam was
       not very much in vogue.
       It was the Tamil militants who popularized the term Thamil Eelam.
       Unfortunately, only the word Eelam is retained of this compound
       form, and this very word itself is now taken to mean a separate
       Tamil country. Given the long presence of the Tamils in this
       country and their devotion to this island as their motherland, has
       invariably led to the use of the term Eelam to denote the entire
       island.
       The Tamil word for Sri Lanka is ILANKAI. It is the Tamilicised form
       of the word Lanka. In Tamil language there has been no tradition
       for “LA” to be the initial sound in a word. Thus, the vowel sound E
       comes first and the word is pronounced as Illankai.
       This term it is quite old. Cilapathikaram, the Tamil epic that
       deals with the history of the Kannaki, the Pattini venerated in the
       Sinhala Buddhist tradition, narrates how Gajabahu brought the
       Pattini cult to Sri Lanka.
       The famous line in Cilapathikaram runs as follows ‘Kadal chool
       illankai kayavahu venthan’ and the word illankai is used here to
       refer to Sri Lanka. Cilapathikaram today is generally taken as a
       work belonging to the 5th century A.D. Thus the term illankai, too,
       has been invoked to refer to the island.
       In geography and history, the Tamil word used is ‘illankai.’ It was
       this wide usage of the term illankai and understanding of its
       common origin that led to the approval of the term illankai in all
       the official documents. In fact, it could be argued that it was
       this welcome degree of understanding that enables the Tamils to
       identify themselves with this island as their country. The
       constitution of the day accepted the usage of this term.
       However, in recent times there is a demand to use the term Sri
       Lanka only and leaving out the term illankai. The insistence of
       this usage has led to an interesting situation in which the Tamils,
       when they wish to refer to the Sinhala government, call it the Sri
       Lankan state and the security forces two are refered to as Sri
       Lankan state forces. The implication is quite clear that these
       institutions have nothing to do with the Tamils.
       If we have to develop a sense of understanding between the
       communities, it is important that the cultures of the other group
       are recognized and respected.
       The deprivation of the use of the term Eelam/Illankai for Sri Lanka
       would only foster a sense of alienation from this island and anyone
       who wants a peaceful settlement would understand the Sri Lankan
       Tamil psyche. It is wrong to impute meanings, which do not exist.
       Reply
    9.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 2:20 pm
       The United Nations is Not doing Doing Anything: Just keep on
       whining, enable neo colonist , neo imeperialism, and collect
       exhorbitant dues for unequal reprensentation.
       Reply
   10.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 2:22 pm
       ding to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees’ most
       recent report, the number of people forced to flee conflict,
       violence, human rights violations and persecution has now surpassed
       100 million for the first time on record. Of that number, over 26
       million are refugees – people who have crossed international
       borders to find safety — another tragic milestone.
       Millions of lives derailed, countless dreams and aspirations
       shattered. But not all hope is lost.
       On May 30, Manyang Lual Jok crossed the stage on McGill’s lower
       campus to collect his BA in Computer Science and Economics during
       Spring Convocation, just five years removed from the Kakuma Refugee
       Camp in Kenya, where he had spent more than half his life. A native
       of South Sudan, Jok fled his war-torn homeland when he was nine
       years old.
       Jok is the most recent success story of the WUSC McGill Student
       Refugee Program. Since its establishment in 1986, WUSC McGill – a
       branch of World University Services Canada (WUSC) – has sponsored
       over 60 student refugees to resettle in Canada and pursue their
       education at McGill. Currently, 15 WUSC scholars are pursuing their
       studies at McGill. WUSC McGill is in full preparation to welcome
       eight new scholars this fall, including, for the first time, two
       Afghan scholars. This is WUSC McGill’s largest cohort to date.
       Run by students, funded by students
       It is a program unlike most others.
       WUSC McGill is a student-run club of the Students’ Society of
       McGill University that provides a year of full financial
       sponsorship, integration assistance, and a community of support.
       The program is funded through a $4 levy collected from all McGill
       students every semester based on student referendum, which is
       administered by the Scholarships & Student Aid Office.
       “The SRP is unique because this peer-to-peer resettlement is not
       the regular pathway that the government uses to resettle refugees,”
       says Alice Ishimwe, WUSC McGill’s Student Refugee Program
       Coordinator. “I’ve been invited to speak in other countries and
       they don’t have programs like this where youth are doing what
       organizations and governments usually do.”
       Five pillars of the program
       World University Service of Canada is a non-profit organization
       that fosters youth-centered solutions for improved education,
       economic, and empowerment opportunities to overcome inequality and
       exclusion in countries across Asia, Africa and the Americas.
       WUSC Student Refugee Program Local Committees operate on five
       pillars: academic integration; social integration; health and
       well-being; financial support; and self-reliance. WUSC works with
       over 100 Canadian universities, colleges, and CEGEPs to bring
       scholars to Canada.
       Reply
   11.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 2:37 pm
       February 2004, US, Canada and Chilean Troops invaded Haiti’s
       national palace either on the orders of President George Bush II or
       Haitian President Jean Betrand Aristide asked to be evacuated for
       fear of a looming civil war threat as the forces of former police
       Chief Guy Phillipe approached. Following later press reports, it
       was mentioned it was Bush who called in a favor to Ricardo Lagos ,
       former Chilean President who obliged , and many Haitians who don’t
       like Aristide never forget him for inviting South African troops to
       Haiti’s Bicentennial in in January 2004. Now fast foward 2022, with
       a sizable Haitian diaspora in Chile, a country that facing economic
       crises and PM Ariel Henri attended the inaguration of the newly
       elected Chilean President, yet he is focusing on Turkiye(Fka
       Turkey) controlled by the egomaniac Reyip Edorgan, former Mayor of
       Istanbul, Former Justice Minister, Former Prime Minister,and now
       the President who holds great influence in NATO as an associate
       member with same privileges as the European members Allies.
       ——————————————————————————-
       ding to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees’ most
       recent report, the number of people forced to flee conflict,
       violence, human rights violations and persecution has now surpassed
       100 million for the first time on record. Of that number, over 26
       million are refugees – people who have crossed international
       borders to find safety — another tragic milestone.
       Millions of lives derailed, countless dreams and aspirations
       shattered. But not all hope is lost.
       On May 30, Manyang Lual Jok crossed the stage on McGill’s lower
       campus to collect his BA in Computer Science and Economics during
       Spring Convocation, just five years removed from the Kakuma Refugee
       Camp in Kenya, where he had spent more than half his life. A native
       of South Sudan, Jok fled his war-torn homeland when he was nine
       years old.
       Jok is the most recent success story of the WUSC McGill Student
       Refugee Program. Since its establishment in 1986, WUSC McGill – a
       branch of World University Services Canada (WUSC) – has sponsored
       over 60 student refugees to resettle in Canada and pursue their
       education at McGill. Currently, 15 WUSC scholars are pursuing their
       studies at McGill. WUSC McGill is in full preparation to welcome
       eight new scholars this fall, including, for the first time, two
       Afghan scholars. This is WUSC McGill’s largest cohort to date.
       Run by students, funded by students
       It is a program unlike most others.
       WUSC McGill is a student-run club of the Students’ Society of
       McGill University that provides a year of full financial
       sponsorship, integration assistance, and a community of support.
       The program is funded through a $4 levy collected from all McGill
       students every semester based on student referendum, which is
       administered by the Scholarships & Student Aid Office.
       “The SRP is unique because this peer-to-peer resettlement is not
       the regular pathway that the government uses to resettle refugees,”
       says Alice Ishimwe, WUSC McGill’s Student Refugee Program
       Coordinator. “I’ve been invited to speak in other countries and
       they don’t have programs like this where youth are doing what
       organizations and governments usually do.”
       Five pillars of the program
       World University Service of Canada is a non-profit organization
       that fosters youth-centered solutions for improved education,
       economic, and empowerment opportunities to overcome inequality and
       exclusion in countries across Asia, Africa and the Americas.
       WUSC Student Refugee Program Local Committees operate on five
       pillars: academic integration; social integration; health and
       well-being; financial support; and self-reliance. WUSC works with
       over 100 Canadian universities, colleges, and CEGEPs to bring
       scholars to Canada.
       Reply
   12.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 2:39 pm
       February 2004, US, Canada and Chilean Troops invaded Haiti’s
       national palace either on the orders of President George Bush II or
       Haitian President Jean Betrand Aristide asked to be evacuated for
       fear of a looming civil war threat as the forces of former police
       Chief Guy Phillipe approached. Following later press reports, it
       was mentioned it was Bush who called in a favor to Ricardo Lagos ,
       former Chilean President who obliged , and many Haitians who don’t
       like Aristide never forget him for inviting South African troops to
       Haiti’s Bicentennial in in January 2004. Now fast foward 2022, with
       a sizable Haitian diaspora in Chile, a country that facing economic
       crises and PM Ariel Henri attended the inaguration of the newly
       elected Chilean President, yet he is focusing on Turkiye(Fka
       Turkey) controlled by the egomaniac Reyip Edorgan, former Mayor of
       Istanbul, Former Justice Minister, Former Prime Minister,and now
       the President who holds great influence in NATO as an associate
       member with same privileges as the European members Allies.
       ——————————————————————————-
       relations with Türkiye, Chile has opened a new embassy building in
       the Turkish capital, Ankara.
       The building was opened with a ceremony that was attended by
       distinguished guests, including senior Turkish and foreign
       diplomats, bureaucrats and deputies.
       During his speech, Chile’s ambassador to Türkiye, Rodrigo E. Arcos,
       underscored his country’s eagerness to further improve relations
       with Ankara.
       Reiterating that Chile was among the first countries to establish
       diplomatic relations with the nascent Republic of Türkiye, he said:
       “Since then, we have developed a fraternal relationship based on
       our common interests, based on our national goals.”
       Drawing attention to the intense high-level diplomatic dialogue
       between the two countries, Arcos praised Turkish diplomacy for its
       professionalism and its efforts at the regional and global levels.
       Identically, Turkish deputy Orhan Kırcalı, president of the
       Türkiye-Chile Parliamentary Friendship Group, expressed his hope
       that the building would contribute to the further enhancement of
       bilateral relations.
       “We are working and will continue to work to develop strategies in
       many areas to improve our cooperation for the benefit of both
       countries,” he said.
       Speaking to Anadolu Agency (AA), Özge Tüysüzoğlu, director of the
       Chilean Trade Office in Türkiye, drew attention to the fact that
       Chile is the only country in the Americas with which Türkiye has a
       free trade agreement.
       That Türkiye’s exports to Chile increased by 140% in 2021 proves
       the success of the agreement, she said, noting that Chilean food
       exporters seriously consider utilizing Türkiye as a hub to access
       wider regional markets.
       Türkiye, with its location and developed infrastructure, is
       considered an ideal location, Tüysüzoğlu added.
       Türkiye maintains good relations with Chile in all areas. The
       establishment of the bilateral relations between Türkiye and the
       Republic of Chile traces back to the Protocol of Consular Affairs
       signed in 1913, during the Ottoman Empire era. With the Treaty of
       Friendship and Cooperation signed on Jan. 30, 1926, Chile became
       the first Latin American country to recognize the new Turkish
       republic.
       Our first diplomatic mission in Santiago became operational in
       1930, however, it was closed the following year. Later on, it
       became operational in 1944 once again and was elevated to the level
       of an embassy in 1954. On the other hand, the first Embassy of
       Chile in Türkiye opened in 1940 and the first Chilean Ambassador
       was appointed in 1957.
       Bilateral political relations gained momentum in the mid-1990s.
       Then Türkiye’s former President H.E. Süleyman Demirel visited Chile
       on April 1995. This visit paved the way for high-level visits and
       meetings.
       The then-Chilean President H.E. Ricardo Lagos visited Türkiye in
       2004 and then-Chilean President H.E. Sebastian Pinera visited
       Türkiye in 2012.
       2016 marked the 90th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic
       relations between Türkiye and Chile. Chilean Foreign Minister H.E.
       Heraldo Munoz visited Türkiye to address the 8th Ambassadors
       Conference held on Jan. 12-14, 2016. During this visit, an
       exhibition of the documents of the two countries from foreign
       ministries’ archives was opened.
       President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan paid an official visit to Chile
       within the scope of his visits to the Latin America region from
       Jan. 31 to Feb. 2, 2016.
       Chile is the only country in the Latin America and Caribbean region
       in which Türkiye has a free trade agreement. The agreement, which
       was signed on July 14, 2009, is in effect since March 1, 2011.
       The trade volume between the two countries was approximately $579.3
       million, with Türkiye’s exports totaling $343.8 million and its
       imports $235.5 million by the end of 2019.
       Reply
   13.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 2:52 pm
       The Petrocaribe Saga Continues: (The Players) RenePreval, Chavez,
       Maduro, Michel Martelly, Lamothe, Juan Guaido, Biden, Rep. Kennedy,
       Hillary Cliton, Portia Simpson Miller, Donald Trump, Raul Castro,
       Jovenel Moise.
       —————————–
       Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has extended Temporary
       Protected Status (TPS) for Venezuelan nationals from September 10,
       2022, through March 10, 2024, due to the country’s continuing
       severe political and economic crises.
       On September 7, 2022, DHS published instructions in the Federal
       Register regarding TPS eligibility and how to apply for an
       extension.
       The extension is only available to those already in TPS status.
       Eligible individuals must apply during the 60-day re-registration
       period that runs from September 8, 2022, through November 7, 2022.
       Failure to re-register during that period may result in a loss of
       TPS. Those with pending registrations or pending employment
       authorization applications need not re-apply. Upon approval of
       these pending submissions, applicants will receive a validity
       period that will extend through March 10, 2024. Those requesting
       extensions may also apply for travel authorization.
       DHS recognizes that it may not be able to adjudicate TPS holder
       applications to extend an employment authorization document (EAD)
       prior to expiration. Accordingly, those who timely apply during the
       re-registration period and have EADs that expire on September 9,
       2022, will receive an automatic extension of their employment
       authorization until September 9, 2023.
       Venezuelan students in F-1 status who are suffering severe economic
       hardship resulting from the crisis in Venezuela are eligible for
       work authorization and may request to have increased work hours and
       a reduced course load.
       While the renewal applies only to those who already have Venezuelan
       TPS, DHS may grant late initial registrations if the individual
       meets specific eligibility requirements, has resided in the United
       States since March 8, 2021, and has maintained continuous presence
       since March 9, 2021.
       Venezuelans were previously entitled to Deferred Enforced Departure
       (DED) from January 20, 2021, to July 20, 2022. However, many
       individuals instead applied for TPS over concern that DHS may not
       have extended DED. Confirming these concerns, DHS decided to not
       extend DED. Since then, TPS remains the sole humanitarian option
       for Venezuelan nationals.
       Reply
   14.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 2:56 pm
       Petrocaribe:
       ested in Haiti on charges of conspiring to smuggle 800 kilograms of
       cocaine into the U.S. and will be arraigned in New York, three
       people familiar with the case said Wednesday.
       The arrest Tuesday, coming just three weeks ahead of key Venezuelan
       legislative elections, is likely to exacerbate already tense
       relations between the U.S. and Venezuela and cast a hard look at
       U.S. accusations of drug trafficking at the highest levels of
       embattled President Nicolas Maduro’s socialist administration.
       The two suspects, Efrain Campos and Francisco Flores, were
       extradited from Haiti and scheduled to be arraigned Thursday in a
       federal court in New York, said a U.S. law enforcement official who
       insisted on anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to discuss the
       case.
       Michael Vigil, a former head of international operations at the
       Drug Enforcement Administration who was briefed by U.S. authorities
       about the lengthy undercover operation, said Campos and Flores were
       arrested in Haiti’s capital, Port-au-Prince, after arriving from
       Venezuela aboard a private plane. Both men were carrying diplomatic
       passports even though they don’t have diplomatic immunity, Vigil
       said.
       He also said Campos had claimed to law enforcement that he is the
       son of Flores and stepson of Maduro.
       Another person briefed on the incident, who agreed to talk about
       the case only if not quoted by name, said Campos is the son of a
       deceased sister of Flores and was partly raised by the first lady
       and Maduro.
       Flores, who Maduro calls the “First Combatant,” is one of the
       most-powerful members of Venezuela’s revolutionary government and a
       constant presence alongside her husband whenever he appears in
       public. The two traveled this week to Saudi Arabia for a summit and
       she’s expected to be with the president Thursday when he’s
       scheduled to address the United Nations Human Rights Council at a
       special meeting in Geneva called at Venezuela’s request.
       A former president of the National Assembly who is now running for
       congress, Flores became romantically involved with Maduro in the
       1990s while serving as lawyer for the then-jailed Hugo Chavez.
       Maduro was one of many leftist activists drawn to the charismatic
       junior army officer following his arrest for a failed 1992 coup
       attempt. The two formally wed in 2013 shortly after Maduro was
       elected.
       Venezuela’s Communications Ministry and Foreign Ministry declined
       to comment about the reported arrests, saying they had no
       information about the incident. Maduro and Flores didn’t issue any
       comment, while the president’s Twitter account highlighted his
       meetings in Saudi Arabia with leaders from the Middle East.
       American prosecutors have been steadily stepping up pressure on
       high-ranking members of Venezuela’s military, police and government
       officials for their alleged role in making the country an important
       transit zone for narcotics heading to the U.S. and Europe. The U.S.
       government says more than 200 tons a year of cocaine flows through
       Venezuela, about a third of Colombia’s estimated production.
       But while several Venezuelan officials, including a former defense
       minister and head of military intelligence, have been indicted or
       sanctioned in the U.S., and many more are under investigation, no
       drug probes had previously touched Maduro’s inner circle.
       The arrests come as Maduro’s government is reeling from an economic
       crisis marked by triple-digit inflation and widespread shortages
       that have emboldened its opponents. Polls say Venezuelans could
       hand the ruling socialist party its biggest electoral defeat in 16
       years in next month’s legislative elections.
       Michael Shifter, president of the Washington-based Inter-American
       Dialogue think tank, said Maduro might use the arrests as a pretext
       to postpone the elections.
       “He will blame the arrests on U.S. imperialism and see them as an
       attempt to undermine his government,” Shifter said. “The news could
       well eclipse some of the mounting, severe criticisms, including
       from the OAS (Organization of American States) secretary general
       and throughout the region, aimed at the regime’s abuses against the
       opposition.”
       Without mentioning the arrests, the president of Venezuela’s
       National Assembly, Diosdado Cabello, used his weekly broadcast
       Wednesday night to accuse the U.S. of trying to destabilize
       Maduro’s administration before the elections.
       “They attack him everywhere and are going to continue attacking,”
       Cabello said.
       Reply
   15.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 3:14 pm
       The United Nations is Not doing Doing Anything: Just keep on
       whining, enable neo colonist , neo imeperialism, and collect
       exhorbitant dues for unequal reprensentation..
       [{ Haitian Law Regarding Extradition}}
       ——————————————————————————————-
       wondered about the legality of the extradition of Senator Guy
       Philippe on Thursday January 5th, great is the confusion in the
       minds of many including our parliamentarians, what say the texts of
       laws in Haiti ?
       First of all, many speak of the agreement signed on 17 October 1997
       between US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and President René
       Préval, which would have served as a legal basis for the
       extradition. To be precise, none of the articles of this agreement
       makes mention of extradition, even when interpreting it in the
       broad sense…
       There is indeed an extradition treaty between Haiti and the United
       States, but it is dated August 9, 1904, and it is stipulated in its
       article 4 “None of the contracting parties will be bound to deliver
       its own citizens.”
       The amended Haitian Constitution, currently in force, is very clear
       :
       Article 8.1 “The Territory of the Republic of Haiti is nviolable
       and may not be alienated either in whole or in part by any Treaty
       or Convention. ”
       Article 41 “No person of Haitian nationality may be deported or
       forced to leave the national territory for any reason whatsoever.
       No one may be deprived for political reasons of his legal capacity
       and nationality.”
       Article 42 “No citizen, civilian or military may be distracted from
       the judges whom the Constitution and the laws assign to him.”
       This means, in light of the Constitution, that the intervention of
       the agents of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) on Haitian
       soil in collaboration with the Brigade for the Fight against
       Narcotic Drugs (BLTS) is unconstitutional.
       Moreover, the Haitian laws of August 1912, June and February 2001,
       dealing with extradition, specify the procedures to be followed,
       including the intervention of the Ministry of Justice, the Public
       Prosecutor’s Office, the investigating judge until the acceptance
       or refusal of extradition. Note that Danton Léger, the Chief
       Prosecutor, said he had not been kept informed of the arrest of
       Senator Guy Philippe and was surprised that he had not been
       transferred to the Public Prosecutor’s Office after his arrest…
       Finally, at the international level the fact that Haitian law does
       not authorize the extradition of its citizens is known. The
       2003-2004 and 2005-2006 Reports of the Inter-American Drug Abuse
       Control Commission (CICAD) of the Organization of American States
       (OAS) recalled that “The Constitution of the Republic of Haiti
       prohibits Extradition of Haitian citizens” and “Haitian law does
       not authorize the extradition of Haitian citizens.”
       The question that now arises is to know on what legal basis Guy
       Phlippe has been handed over to the Americans, if however one can
       still speak of extradition in this case…
       So far, neither the de facto President, nor the Prime Minister, nor
       the Minister of Justice nor the police authorities, not even the
       American authorities, have given satisfactory explanations on this
       increasingly opaque case, which generates more questions than
       answers…
       ———————————————————————————–
       Reply
   16.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 3:47 pm
       50 Most Indebted Countries in the World: What Have the UNited
       Nations Done to help:
       Reply
   17.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 3:52 pm
       The head of the Organization of American States says he won’t
       interfere in an internal ethics probe into claims he had a romance
       with a staffer, and he insists he took no action to favor the
       younger woman allegedly involved
       October 9, 2022
       Share
       Secretary General of the Organization of American States Luis
       Almagro speaks during a press conference at the 52nd OAS General
       Assembly in Lima, Peru, Wednesday, Oct. 5, 2022. (AP
       Photo/Guadalupe Pardo)
       Secretary General of the Organization of American States Luis
       Almagro speaks during a press conference at the 52nd OAS General
       Assembly in Lima, Peru, Wednesday, Oct. 5, 2022. (AP
       Photo/Guadalupe Pardo)
       The Associated Press
       MIAMI — The head of the Organization of American States says he
       won’t interfere in an internal ethics probe into claims he had a
       romance with a staffer, and he insists he took no action to favor
       the younger woman allegedly involved.
       Luis Almagro made the comments late Friday from the capital of Peru
       at the conclusion of the OAS’s annual meeting.
       “We’re not going to interfere in any part of the investigation,”
       Almagro said.
       The OAS chief was reacting to a report by The Associated Press that
       revealed he is facing a probe over his purported relationship with
       the Mexican-born woman two decades his junior.
       Several current and former staffers, as well as regional diplomats,
       told AP that the relationship between the two was an open secret
       inside the Washington-based peace and democracy-building
       organization.
       Almagro refused to comment on the relationship, saying he doesn’t
       like to discuss his private affairs.
       But he said he would answer any of the OAS inspector general’s
       inquiries and was confident he would be absolved of any wrongdoing
       because he never favored the unnamed staffer in any employment
       decisions.
       “Unfortunately I’m going to be the person least informed about this
       process because I’m not going to participate in any phase of it,”
       he said.
       Almagro, 59, denied he was ever the woman’s supervisor and the OAS
       press office said that since 2019 she has worked in the
       organization’s Secretariat for Strengthening Democracy.
       However, in several online bios as well as in photos with Almagro
       as recently as March, some of them posted to OAS social media
       accoun
       Reply
   18.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 3:54 pm
       https://www.advocacyinternational.co.uk/project/advocacy-internatio
       nal-in-haiti-defending-and-strengthening-local-democracy
       Reply
   19.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 4:02 pm
       Why the U.N . Security Council is not calling an emergency meeting
       on this situation , since its founding in San Francisco, yet check
       how many its troops have been deployed to primary African countries
       or African people majority based countries, check its records, let
       it it for itself.It has always backed imperialism no matter what
       reform or resolution.
       Reply
   20.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 4:08 pm
       Guyana(seat of Caricom) Jamaica, ( ancestral home of Father of
       Current U.S. Vice President Kamila Harris) (Jamaica, and and
       defitenely Barbados.
       Reply
   21.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 4:08 pm
       https://www.kaieteurnewsonline.com/2021/03/01/the-ppp-never-opposed
       -guyana-becoming-a-republic/
       Reply
   22.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 4:14 pm
       Elections in Europe (Bulgaria Votes 2022) Right in the Middle of
       the Russo- Ukrainian War.We demand the same for Haiti.Peaceful
       transfer of Power.
       https://www.euronews.com/2022/10/02/bulgaria-election-exit-polls-su
       ggest-victory-for-ex-pm-boyko-borissovs-gerb-party
       Reply
   23.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 4:16 pm
       In Memoriam: Before the Eathquake, and Before the Petrocaribe
       fiasco.
       Reply
   24.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 4:16 pm
       https://www.ncronline.org/news/people/haitian-activist-priest-jean-
       juste-dies-62
       Reply
   25.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 4:31 pm
       The Right to Peaceful Assembly and Protest in Haiti: Ariel Henry
       was not elected, he was chosen by political actors in Haiti along
       with foreign consulates.He does not have the legal authority to
       order foreign forces to Haiti without conulting the Haitian
       parliament and the Haitian people.
       Reply
   26.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 4:35 pm
       Again Brazil: 230 Reais is Not Enough:
       NEWS | Sept. 30, 2022
       U.S. and Brazil Navy Conduct Bilateral Exercise
       By U.S. Naval Forces Southern Command / U.S. 4th Fleet
       ATLANTIC OCEAN –
       The bilateral exercise between U.S. and Brazilian forces focused on
       maritime security and strengthening maritime partnerships with
       partner nations.
       “The bilateral exercise continued to demonstrate collaboration and
       interoperability between the United States and Brazil’s Naval
       forces,” said Capt. Meger Chappell, deputy commodore of Destroyer
       Squadron (DESRON) 40. “We built on the lessons learned during
       UNITAS LXIII to further strengthen our ability to ensure maritime
       superiority in the region.”
       The United States and Brazil Naval forces built a relationship on a
       shared vision of free and open southwestern Atlantic Ocean, and a
       constant practice on eliminating illegal drug trade throughout the
       area. Both countries continued to work together and conducted
       bilateral exercises to strengthen regional consistency.
       “This was a great opportunity to build capacity and increase our
       friendship together,” said Brazilian Naval Capt. Rafael Zeque
       Monteiro, Commander, Brazilian Escort Squadron 1. “Safety is always
       paramount, but we learned greatly from each other.”
       The Lassen and the União safely conducted rescue and assistance
       operations, gun exercises, flight operations with an MH-60R Sea
       Hawk helicopter attached to Navy Helicopter Squadron “Spartans”
       (HSM) 70 and a Brazilian Navy UH-12 Esquilo Helicopter, and a Close
       Air Support Exercise (CASEX) where both ships are given a wide area
       to search for submarines.
       Working closely together, the U.S. and Brazilian Naval forces were
       able to build maritime relationships and partnerships together.
       “This bilateral exercise was an amazing opportunity to build on the
       bonds between the U.S and Brazilian Navies,” said Cmdr. Christopher
       Turmel, commanding officer of Lassen . “Sailors on both sides built
       capacity as we worked through a wide variety of exercises, emerging
       better trained with improved interoperability. Lassen was honored
       to be a part of this exercise.”
       Commander, Destroyer Squadron 40 (COMDESRON 40) plays a key role in
       executing our Nation’s maritime strategy by providing dedicated
       tactical support to naval operations in the U.S. Southern Command’s
       area of responsibility. The Squadron fosters unity and cooperation
       between the United States and its South American, Central American,
       and Caribbean partner nations.
       Reply
   27.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 5:35 pm
       It’s not about sanctions, it’s about accountability, justice,
       humanity. In a world that is becoming more multi polarized, while
       fragmental policy initiaves is causing more chaos for the world’s
       working poor whether it’s Haiti, South Sudan and people fighting
       for their lives to be heard, counted, valued, what Haiti needs is
       not the “Carry a Big Stick policy”, but help, A Haitian doctor
       trained in the US may not happy working in some conditions of
       Haiti, when he pledged to the US, Canada, France. This has been
       Moses’s dilemna after leaving Egypt.
       ————————————————————————————–
       Reponse to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 was swift
       and decisive.
       Shortly after the Russian invasion, the United States barred Russia
       from making debt payments using foreign currency held in U.S.
       banks, increasing the risk for Russia to default on its debts. In
       addition, seven Russian banks have been excluded from the SWIFT
       international messaging system, which facilitates financial
       transactions and payments.
       These sanctions were the “largest sanctions package in [the]
       Union’s history,” according to Ursula Gertrud von der Leyen, the
       president of the European Commission.
       To remedy the impact of sanctions on its economy, Russia has
       expedited cooperation with its partners, including China, India,
       and the Islamic Republic of Iran, to create a parallel financial
       system to the Western-dominated institutions. In doing so, Russia
       is pursuing two main objectives. In the short term, Moscow’s goal
       is to replace Western markets by expanding its petroleum exports to
       India and China, which are seemingly more reliable trade partners.
       The ultimate objective, however, is to create a system in which
       Russia and its partners can circumvent Western economic dominance.
       The practicality and effectiveness of such a system remains to be
       seen.
       The creation of a new financial system has been on Russia’s agenda
       for years. In fact, from the early days of the post-Soviet Union,
       Moscow has been trying to establish a common market with the USSR’s
       former republics. In this vein, the 1991 “Commonwealth of the
       Independent States,” an intergovernmental organization between
       eastern European and Central Asian nations, was created to
       encourage financial cooperation and mutual trade. This resulted in
       the establishment of the Eurasian Economic Union, or EEU, in 2014,
       a supranational institution that integrated the market of five
       countries – Russia, Belarus, Armenia, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan –
       into a single market.
       Nevertheless, during this period, Russia remained more interested
       in creating a “financial hub” of its own rather than creating a
       “financial zone” parallel to the Western system. However, the
       U.S.-backed sanctions on Russia that followed the annexation of
       Crimea in 2014 demonstrated Moscow’s vulnerabilities. It is
       noteworthy that as a result of sanctions, the Russian currency, the
       rouble, depreciated by 100 percent.
       This helps explain why, shortly after the annexation of Crimea,
       Russia began adopting its “Fortress Russia” strategy designed to
       detach its economy from the Western-dominated financial system and
       diversify its economy. Two important measures bear noting here. The
       System for Transfer of Financial Messages (Sisteme Peredachi
       Finansovykh Soobshchenii) was devised in 2014 as a Russian
       equivalent of the SWIFT system and was designed to reduce the risk
       of sanctions imposed on Russian businesses and banks.
       Despite Russian declarations on the effectiveness of this system,
       however, SPFS has suffered from a number of shortcomings, including
       high transaction costs, system availability, and security
       requirements, which have undermined its reliability and usefulness.
       Meanwhile, the MIR payment system initiated by the Russian Central
       Bank in 2017 is meant to serve as an alternative to the U.S.-based
       Visa and MasterCard. MIR has already been accepted in 11 other
       countries. In addition, Russia has accelerated its efforts to
       de-dollarize bilateral trade with friendly countries such as China,
       Iran and India, and has been actively redirecting its petrol
       exports from West to East to turn Asia into the “default market”
       for Russian oil.
       A number of regional powers have also sought to detach their
       economies from the Western financial system. Since 2014, Russia and
       China have been strengthening their partnership. To shield their
       financial cooperation from potential U.S. sanctions, both nations
       have sought to eliminate the U.S. dollar from their trade with
       considerable success. It is noteworthy that in 2020, only 41.5
       percent of bilateral trade has been settled in Dollars, while in
       2015, 91 percent of bilateral exchanges were settled in U.S.
       currency.
       Meanwhile, Sino-Russian cooperation entered a new stage in December
       2021 when Russian President Vladimir Putin and China’s Xi Jinping
       held a video conference and jointly pledged to escalate bilateral
       efforts to set up an independent trade network to reduce their
       reliance on the U.S.-led international financial system. The
       Putin-Xi commitment was followed by the Bank of China’s decision to
       join the Russian SPFS in 2022. However, the Bank of China is the
       only non-Russian member of the SPFS, and China has not encouraged
       other banks to join it.
       India is another potential candidate for the Russian initiative. In
       fact, since 2019, New Delhi has been expressing its interest in
       joining the SPFS and replacing the dollar with rupee-rubles
       transactions. The evidence suggests that both nations have made
       significant progress in achieving this goal, given that the use of
       rupee-rubles in bilateral transactions has quintupled.
       The other prospective candidate for the Russia-proposed financial
       system is Iran, whose economy has been subject to suffocating
       sanctions for a decade. Iranian banks were cut off from the SWIFT
       system in 2012 as a result of U.S. sanctions. While Iranian banks
       briefly rejoined the system in the aftermath of the 2015 signing of
       the JCPOA (the Iran nuclear deal), they were disconnected again as
       a result of President Donald Trump’s withdrawal from the agreement
       two years later.
       It is therefore no surprise that Tehran would also be interested in
       joining the Russian-led initiative. In this context, Mehdi Safari,
       Deputy Foreign Minister for Economic Diplomacy, told Sputnik in
       July 2022 that the two countries should de-dollarize their trade
       and build a similar system to SWIFT.
       Notwithstanding the efforts to circumvent Western financial
       institutions, the Russian system has yet to prove effective, due to
       a number of factors. The number of countries willing to join or
       cooperate with the Russian led financial system is limited. It is
       noteworthy that while Turkish banks had previously adopted the MIR,
       they have since dropped it under pressure from the U.S. and
       European authorities. The Egyptians, just a few days ago, did too.
       Additionally, some of the prospects for increased Russian
       cooperation on the financial side have more trade with the U.S.
       than Russia. It bears noting that China is a top trade partner for
       the U.S. with $521 billion worth of exports headed to the U.S.
       market in 2021. Meanwhile, the Chinese exports to Russia stood at
       $59 billion. Similarly, India’s top trade partner is the United
       States, and about 18.1 percent of India’s exports in 2021, worth
       $71 billion, were purchased by Americans, while Russia is not even
       among India’s top 25 trade partners.
       Therefore, it would neither be practical nor feasible for India or
       China to trade with Russia, at the cost of antagonizing the U.S. In
       the Iranian case, notwithstanding the growing political and
       military ties between the two countries, Iran and Russia not only
       don’t have a compatible economy, but they are natural competitors.
       Both nations are oil exporting countries, seeking to grow their
       markets. In fact, Russia is already competing with Iran over the
       Chinese and Indian markets by offering oil at a discounted price.
       Given the challenges discussed, and ongoing uncertainties over the
       readiness of other major powers to implement the Russian system,
       the future and effectiveness of the “fortress Russia” strategy
       remains unclear.
       For the moment, the weaponization of sanctions as a tool of
       punishment has indeed created incentives for some nations to
       cooperate with the West. But while American dominance over the
       financial markets have stymied the Kremlin’s efforts to establish a
       parallel system, evidence suggests that dynamics are shifting as
       more countries are conscious of their vulnerabilities.
       As the world moves toward a multipolar reality, there may be a time
       when alternatives are much more preferable to the U.S. dominated
       system. Indeed, the West should be concerned about China’s future
       actions, as Beijing is expanding its gigantic industrial and
       commercial capabilities at home and abroad. If it chooses to move
       closer to Russia in its quest to forge a new path, the
       Reply
   28.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 5:47 pm
       No More Tricks on the Haitian People: such as Match for Peace:
       Brazil should demand the UN reform or fold instead of fancing
       painting ot its outside walls, while classics painting are
       protected by gas guzzling SUVs that not even belong to the UN but
       to industry titans across the world.We would not be fooled this
       time:
       Reply
   29.
   Bruno Desssalines says:
       Oct. 12, 2022 at 7:48 pm
       Guy Phillipe and US troops at the Haitian National Palace (March
       2004
       https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y0ONmaCjKDQ
       Reply
   30. Pingback: To some Haitians, another foreign military force would be
       “greatest humiliation” - haiti-info.com
   31. Pingback: Ariel Henry Requires Navy Intervention Amid Violence,
       Cholera Outbreak - Jaraa'id
   32. Pingback: Ariel Henry Calls for Military Intervention Amid
       Violence, Cholera Outbreak - Corruption Buzz
   33.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 14, 2022 at 8:53 pm
       Word from a Bekke Frenchman who used to Own Slaves(Jean Baptiste
       Victor Hughes from Marseille, in Guadeloupe which almost caused the
       French -American War in 1815 . Now France , Canada, Brazil,
       Portugal and US wants to gang up on a small country island that on
       the guise of international security.
       Article on the slave trade
       An additional article appended to the treaty addressed the issue of
       slavery. It reaffirmed the Declaration of the Powers, on the
       Abolition of the Slave Trade, of 8th of February 1815 (which also
       formed ACT, No. XV. of the Final Act of the Congress of Vienna) and
       added that the governments of the contracting parties should
       “without loss of time, … [find] the most effectual measures for the
       entire and definitive abolition of a Commerce so odious, and so
       strongly condemned by the laws of religion and of nature”.[14][15]
       Convention on pecuniary indemnity
       Reply
   34.
   africandias says:
       Oct. 17, 2022 at 11:49 am
       Colonianism in Africa is transported to the Caribbean: Gabon The
       Baka people, known in the Congo as Bayaka (Bebayaka, Bebayaga,
       Bibaya),[1] are an ethnic group inhabiting the southeastern rain
       forests of Cameroon, northern Republic of the Congo, northern
       Gabon, and southwestern Central African Republic. They are
       sometimes called a subgroup of the Twa, but the two peoples are not
       closely related. Likewise, the name “Baka” is sometimes mistakenly
       applied to other peoples of the area who, like the Baka and Twa,
       have been historically called pygmies, a term that is now
       considered derogatory.
       Two indigenous women in Gabon
       Baka people are all hunter-gatherers, formerly referred to as
       pygmies, located in the Central African rain forest. Having average
       heights of 1.52 meters (5 feet) on average as well as living
       semi-nomadic lifestyles, the Baka are often discriminated against
       and marginalized from society.[2]
       The tropical rain forest in Gabon, Central Africa where the UN
       holds a strategic office where some of the Baka reside
       They reside in southeastern Cameroon, northern Gabon and in the
       northern part of the Republic of Congo. In Congo, the Baka people
       are otherwise known as the Bayaka.[3] Some Baka are also found in
       southwestern Central African Republic.[4] Although the Baka people
       are located throughout the Central African rain forest, they are
       mainly concentrated in Cameroon as the Baka community of Cameroon
       represents roughly 30 000 individuals.Albert Swe
       Reply
   35. Pingback: Nations consider sending troops to Haiti, despite
       troubled past foreign intervention : NPR - Yours Headline
   36. Pingback: Nations consider sending troops to Haiti, despite
       troubled past foreign intervention : NPR - SecularTimes
   37. Pingback: Nations consider sending troops to Haiti, despite
       troubled past foreign intervention : NPR - Verve times
   38. Pingback: Nations consider sending troops to Haiti, despite
       troubled past foreign intervention : NPR - News7F
   39. Pingback: Nations consider sending troops to Haiti, despite
       troubled past foreign intervention : NPR - swifttelecast
   40. Pingback: Nations think about sending troops to Haiti, regardless
       of troubled previous overseas intervention : NPR - Latest Trending
       News
   41. Pingback: Nations consider sending troops to Haiti, despite
       troubled past foreign intervention : NPR - Google News
   42. Pingback: NPR: Nations consider sending troops to Haiti despite
       previous foreign interference - NEWS BASKET
   43. Pingback: McGarvey Fall Update - McGarvey Haitian Adventures
   44. Pingback: NPR: Nations Consider Sending Troops To Haiti Despite
       Previous Foreign Interference
   45. Pingback: Nations consider sending troops to Haiti despite past
       troubled foreign intervention: NPR - Daily News Report
   46. Pingback: Nations contemplate sending troops to Haiti, regardless
       of troubled previous international intervention - Wao Technology
   47.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 21, 2022 at 1:03 pm
       Haiti is recgonized by the U.S in 1862 by Abraham Lincoln after the
       US Presidency, and the American Civil War
       Reply
   48.
   natifnatal says:
       Oct. 21, 2022 at 3:07 pm
       The *Bahamas, Canada, Brazil , the US, Peru, want to invade Haiti.
       http://www.tribune242.com/
       Bahamas sold three islands to the Walt Disney Corp, and the State
       of Florida wants to remove tax abatement status for the Walt Disney
       Co which has contracts with some of Haiti’s factory owner to make
       Disney branded clothing.Don’t forget the Bahamas has turned down a
       constitutional referendum to allow Haitians living in the
       Bahamas.Because of covid 19- tourism is no longer a reliable source
       of income.
       Reply
   49. Pingback: US proposes military intervention in Haiti—again

   Leave a comment
   Cancel reply

   Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

   Comment *
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________

   Name * ______________________________

   Email * ______________________________

   Website ______________________________

   [ ] Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time
   I comment.

   IFRAME:
   https://www.google.com/recaptcha/api/fallback?k=6LdXYXIbAAAAALFMJel0g6I
   SEq5HM-GP4nLPxjU0


   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________

   [ ] Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

   [ ] Notify me of new posts by email.

   Post Comment

   Δ
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________

Leave a comment

   Search for: ____________________ (BUTTON) Search

   [INS: :INS]

     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * Instagram
     * Youtube

News

     * Immigration & Migration
     * Education
     * Beauty & Style
     * Lists & Guides
     * THT Archives

Contribute

     * Opinion Submission Guidelines
     * Republishing Guidelines
     * Careers

About

     * About Haitian Times
     * Company Updates
     * Contact

   © 2023 The Haitian Times. Proudly powered by Newspack by Automattic

   [INS: :INS]
