   Czech Republic Government

   euroskop.cz Informační centrum vlády

   Skip to: main text | navigation

Navigace

     * Home
     * Members of the Government
     * Government Meetings
     * Media Centre
     * European Affairs
     * Advisory and Working Bodies
     * Office of the Government

   [ ]

Search

   Insert text for searching

   _________________ search

     * česká verzeCZ

   ministersmeetingsmediaEUcouncilsoffice
     * Press Advisories
     * Scheduled Events
     * Press Releases
     * Press Conferences
     * Introducing
     * Government Meetings
     * Important Documents
     * Important Information
     * Contacts

Press Advisories

   28. 2. 2022 21:00

Important covid-19 measures for foreigners

   Important information regarded covid-19 measures for people coming to
   the Czech Republic.


     * On-line arrivals form for the Czech Republic
     * The rules for entering the territory of the Czech republic
     * Vaccination plan
     * Vaccination
     * Visiting Healthcare institutions
     * The obligation to wear face masks


On-line arrivals form for the Czech Republic

   The Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic has launched an on-line
   arrival form. It will have to be completed before arrival in the Czech
   Republic by all those who have stayed for more than 12 hours out of the
   last 14 days in any country that is not on the list of countries with a
   low Covid-19 risk, with the exception of employees of international
   transport firms, EU citizens and foreigners with a long-term or
   permanent residence permit in the EU passing through the Czech Republic
   in 12 hours or less, as well as diplomats and officials of
   international organizations registered with the Ministry of Foreign
   Affairs, provided that their stay here does not exceed 14 days.

   Passengers will find the form on the www.prijezdovyformular.cz website.
   The obligation to complete it will apply to travellers arriving in the
   Czech Republic from Monday 21 September 2020 inclusive.

   The form may be printed out or displayed on a mobile device and shown
   on arrival in the Czech Republic. The form also includes a section on
   fellow passengers, which need only be completed if they are family
   members under the age of 18. These persons need not therefore complete
   their own form, but are part of the form to be completed by an adult.

   After completion and submission of the form, a confirmation of
   completion will be sent to the user at the e-mail address given in the
   form. The e-mail contains a QR code and a link to display the entire
   confirmation, including all data provided. After scanning on any mobile
   phone, the QR code will display the on-line version of the confirmation
   for verification. The displayed verification contains all the data
   provided.

   Detailed information of the Ministry of the Interior.

The rules for entering the territory of the Czech Republic

   The Ministry of Health, as the authorised administrative body under
   Section 80(1)(h) of Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public
   Health and on changes to certain related Acts, as amended (hereinafter
   referred to as “Act No. 258/2000 Coll.”) has decreed the following
   protective measure through a procedure defined in Section 68(1) of Act
   No. 258/2000 Coll. to provide protection from the introduction of
   COVID-19 caused by the novel coronavirus SARSCoV-2:

   I.

   With effect as of 15 February 2022, 00:00 it has been

   I. ordered

   A. Arrivals from EU countries

   1. all persons traveling to the territory of the Czech Republic from EU
   countries, if they have not spent at least 12 hours in the last 14 days
   in a country outside the European Union,
    1. are required to complete Public Health Passenger Locator Form
       before the start of the transportation;
    2. are required to have the following before the start of the
       transportation:


    1. the result of an RT-PCR test or RAT test, or
    2. national certificate on vaccination that has been carried out or a
       national certificate of completed vaccination, or
    3. medical certificate on suffering COVID-19 disease in the past;


    3. when requested to do so during a border or residence check, are
       required to present a document confirming that they filled out the
       Public Health Passenger Locator Form, the document referred to in
       letter b), or a written document that an exemption applies to the
       given person according to this Protective Measure;

   the definition of Public Health Passenger Locator Form, RT-PCR test or
   RAT test, national certificate on vaccination that has been carried
   out, national certificate of completed vaccination and medical
   certificate on suffering COVID-19 disease in the past are referred to
   in clause III;

   2. that persons referred to in clause I.7 are exempt from the
   obligations stated in clause I.1; exemptions from partial obligations
   are defined in clauses I.8 through I.12;

   B. Arrivals from non-EU countries

   3. citizens of the Czech Republic and other persons referred to in
   clause I.5 who travel to the territory of the Czech Republic from
   countries outside the European Union,
    1. are required to complete Public Health Passenger Locator Form
       before the start of the transportation;
    2. are required to have the following before the start of the
       transportation:


    1. the result of an RT-PCR test or RAT test, or
    2. national certificate on vaccination that has been carried out or a
       national certificate of completed vaccination, or
    3. medical certificate on suffering COVID-19 disease in the past;


    3. when requested to do so during a border or residence check, are
       required to present a document confirming that they filled out the
       Public Health Passenger Locator Form, the document referred to in
       letter b), or a written document that an exemption applies to the
       given person according to this Protective Measure;
    4. if the person does not possess a national certificate on
       vaccination that has been carried out or a national certificate of
       completed vaccination, or a medical certificate on suffering
       COVID-19 disease in the past, they are required to submit
       themselves to an RT-PCR test not earlier than on the 5th day but no
       later than on the 7th day after their entry into the territory of
       the Czech Republic, if the person still remains in the territory of
       the Czech Republic, unless the public health protection authority
       decides differently in a completely exceptional case;

   the definition of Public Health Passenger Locator Form, RT-PCR test or
   RAT test, national certificate on vaccination that has been carried
   out, national certificate of completed vaccination and medical
   certificate on suffering COVID-19 disease in the past are reffered to
   in clause III;

   4. other persons who have stayed for more than 12 hours in the last 14
   days in a country outside the European Union,
    1. are required to complete Public Health Passenger Locator Form
       before the start of the transportation;
    2. are required to have the following before the start of the
       transportation:


    1. the result of an RT-PCR test or RAT test, or
    2. national certificate on vaccination that has been carried out or a
       national certificate of completed vaccination, or
    3. medical certificate on suffering COVID-19 disease in the past;


    3. when requested to do so during a border or residence check, are
       required to present a document confirming that they filled out the
       Public Health Passenger Locator Form, the document referred to in
       letter b), or a written document that an exemption applies to the
       given person according to this Protective Measure;
    4. if the person does not possess a national certificate on
       vaccination that has been carried out or a national certificate of
       completed vaccination, or a medical certificate on suffering
       COVID-19 disease in the past, they are required to submit
       themselves to an RT-PCR test not earlier than on the 5th day but no
       later than on the 7th day after their entry into the territory of
       the Czech Republic, if the person still remains in the territory of
       the Czech Republic, unless the public health protection authority
       decides otherwise in a completely exceptional case;

   the definition of Public Health Passenger Locator Form, RT-PCR test or
   RAT test, national certificate on vaccination that has been carried
   out, national certificate of completed vaccination and medical
   certificate on suffering COVID-19 disease in the past are referred to
   in clause III;

   5. that other persons are
    1. EU citizens;
    2. family members of Czech citizens or family members of EU citizens
       with a residence permit in the territory of the EU;
    3. foreigners with an issued long-term or permanent residence permits
       in the territory of the EU;

   6. that persons referred to in clause I.7 are exempt from the
   obligations stated in clause I.1; exemptions from partial obligations
   are defined in clauses I.8 through I.12;

   e) Exemptions from Anti-epidemic Measures

   C. a) Exemptions from all anti-epidemic measures defined in this
   Protective Measure

   7. that the obligations arising from the anti-epidemic measures
   implemented under this Protective Measure and relating to arrivals from
   countries with a low, medium, high and very high risk of incidence of
   COVID-19 do not apply to:
    1. international transport employees, if the reason for entry is
       supported by adequate documentary evidence;
    2. persons who are authorised to enter the territory of the Czech
       Republic who


    1. travel via a land route directly to or directly from neighbouring
       countries for a period of time not exceeding 24 hours; except for
       travels started between 30 December 2021 and 1 January 2022;


    3. accredited members of diplomatic missions in the Czech Republic,
       including personal servants, holders of service passports issued by
       the Czech Republic and holders of diplomatic passports travel to or
       from the Czech Republic for purposes of official business and
       officials of international organisations registered with the
       Ministry of Foreign Affairs travelling to or from the Czech
       Republic for purposes of official business, provided that their
       stay in the territory or outside the territory does not exceed 72
       hours;
    4. minor persons with an intellectual disability, with an autism
       spectrum disorder and a cognitive disorder or with a severe
       alteration in mental status, whose mental capabilities or current
       mental status does not allow for complying with this Protective
       Measure and who have had a medical certificate issued in English
       for this purpose by a physician practicing in the Czech Republic or
       in another Member State of the European Union; the certificate must
       contain a seal and the physician’s identification information and
       telephone number;
    5. cross-border workers, pupils and students who legally cross the
       state border with the Czech Republic to or from a neighbouring
       country on a regular basis at least once a week for the purpose of
       performing work or receiving education, and persons who travel to
       or from a neighbouring country for the purpose of exercising the
       right of custody of a minor child or the right of contacting a
       minor child, or for the purpose of visiting a husband or a
       registered partner who is employed or studies in a neighbouring
       country;
    6. officials of the Penitentiary Service or police officers escorting
       individuals or serving as security officers accompanying airplanes;
    7. cross-border collaboration in actions of the integrated rescue
       system forces.
    8. children less than 12 years of age;

   C. b) Exemptions from certain anti-epidemic measures under this
   Protective Measure

   8. that in case of Czech citizens and other persons stated in clause
   I.5 who are arriving by individual means of transport, the obligations
   before arrival into the territory of the Czech Republic as stated in
   this Protective Measure in parts A. and B. do not apply;

   9. that the obligation to have the result of an RT-PCR test before a
   travel does not apply to a holder of a diplomatic note issued by the
   Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the impossibility to procure a test for
   the presence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus outside the territory of the Czech
   Republic;

   D. Arrival of Covid-positive Persons

   10. that the persons with COVID-19, except for the persons specified in
   clause I.14, are prohibited from entering the territory of the Czech
   Republic;

   11. the citizens of the Czech Republic and their co-travelling family
   members with an issued permit for temporary residence in the territory
   of the Czech Republic, the citizens of the European Union with an
   issued certificate of temporary residence in the territory of the Czech
   Republic and the foreign nationals with a permit for permanent
   residence in the territory of the Czech Republic, issued by the Czech
   Republic, in whom a test proved the presence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus
   less than 14 days before their planned entry into the territory of the
   Czech Republic,
    1. to transport themselves to and subsequently within the territory of
       the Czech Republic by individual means of transport, if possible;
    2. if they are travelling by means of public transport, to notify the
       carrier of possible persisting COVID-19 before starting the travel;
    3. to notify the regional Public Health Office with territorial
       jurisdiction immediately after entering the territory of the Czech
       Republic regardless of the means of transport;

   E. Other Obligations of Persons and Government Authorities Relating to
   the Prevention of the Introduction or Spreading of COVID-19

   12. the embassies of the Czech Republic in third countries to accept
   only visa applications and applications for temporary and permanent
   residence permits, if the applications fall into the following
   categories:
    1. all the applications filed in third countries, which are on the
       list of countries or territories with a low risk of infection;
    2. all the applications for short-term visas of those persons who,
       under this Protective Measure, are holders of a national
       certificate on vaccination that has been carried out or a national
       certificate of completed vaccination or those persons who have had
       COVID-19, and the period of validity of the certificate is longer
       than the period of validity of the short-term visa applied for; an
       embassy may determine preferential office hours for submission of
       such applications;
    3. applications for long-term or permanent residence permits; an
       embassy may determine preferential office hours for submission of
       such applications;
    4. applications for long-term visas;
    5. applications for short-term visas


    1. for the purpose of seasonal employment or for the purpose of
       employment, if the foreign national is going to be employed in food
       production, health care or social services, or short-term visas for
       the purpose of employment, if the applications are filed by
       citizens of Ukraine in Ukraine, unless they exceed the maximum
       number of such applications determined by the Ministry of foreign
       Affairs in consultation with the Ministry of Health;
    2. for scientists, key and highly skilled workers, provided that the
       conditions defined in the Key and Scientific Staff Programme and
       the Highly Skilled Employee Programme are met, and for workers
       servicing the critical infrastructure;
    3. for the reason specified in clauses II.1(d) through (I);

   13. the embassies of the Czech Republic in third countries and the
   Ministry of the Interior to stay all proceedings on applications for
   visa and residence permits filed at the embassies of the Czech Republic
   in third countries for those states whose measures implemented due to
   the COVID-19 pandemic do not allow to carry out operations;

   14. the embassies of the Czech Republic in third countries to enter a
   visa into a travel document based only on those applications, which can
   be accepted under clause I.

   15 or for which the proceedings were not stayed according to clause I.
   16; 15. third country nationals, who intend to enter the territory of
   the Czech Republic for the purpose of employment, to present a current
   certificate from the employer that the employer will employ the foreign
   national no later than before a long-term visa or a visa for the
   purpose of collection of a residence permit is entered into their
   travel document, if more than 90 days elapsed since the filing of an
   application for a long-term visa or a longterm residence permit;

   16. foreign nationals detained under Section 27 of Act No. 273/2008
   Coll., on the Police of the Czech Republic, or under Act No. 326/1999
   Coll., on the Residence of Foreign Nationals in the Territory of the
   Czech Republic and on changes to certain Acts, as amended, to submit
   themselves to the collection of a biological sample for the purpose of
   detecting the presence of COVID-19 and to provide healthcare
   professionals with the necessary collaboration in the process of taking
   this sample at the official sample-taking site of the provider of
   medical services or in the facility for detention of foreigners;

   17. carriers providing international transport of persons, which
   transport persons to the Czech Republic, to not allow transport of
   those travellers who are not authorised to enter the territory of the
   Czech Republic under this Protective Measure or who have failed to
   comply with the obligations specified in clauses I.1 and I.3, unless
   they are exempted from such obligations under clauses I.2 or clauses
   I.4 through I.10;

   II. prohibits

   1. all third country nationals from entering the territory of the Czech
   Republic; this does not apply:
    1. to foreign nationals who provide evidence that they stayed in a
       country with a low risk of infection for at least 14 days
       immediately before entering the territory of the Czech Republic and
       did not stay in the territories of countries with other than a low
       risk of infection for more than 12 hours during the last 14 days;
    2. to holders of valid long-term visas, long-term, temporary or
       permanent residence permits for the territory of the European
       Union;
    3. to foreign nationals who have been issued short-term visas by the
       Czech Republic after 11 May 2020 or by a Member State of the
       European Union on behalf of the Czech Republic under a bilateral
       agreement after 1 August 2021;
    4. to family members within the meaning of Section 15a of Act No.
       326/1999 Coll., on the Residence of Foreign Nationals in the
       Territory of the Czech Republic and on changes to certain Acts, as
       amended, of citizens of the Czech Republic or citizens of the
       European Union;
    5. if in exceptional situations the entry and presence of a foreigner
       in the territory of the Czech Republic is absolutely necessary and
       at the same time the reason for entry is proved by an appropriate
       document issued by the head of the central state administration
       authority, which contains a proper specific justification of the
       necessity of the presence of a foreigner in the territory of the
       Czech Republic and fulfilment of the intended purpose cannot be
       ensured in any other way; a mere general indication of the need for
       presence does not fulfil the condition of a proper specific
       justification; the document cannot be issued for accompanying
       family members of the requesting foreigner;
    6. to workers in the field of international transport, provided that
       the reason for their entry is supported by an adequate document;
    7. to accredited members of diplomatic missions in the Czech Republic,
       including personal servants, holders of diplomatic passports
       travelling to the Czech Republic for the purposes of official
       business and to officials of international organisations registered
       with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs;
    8. in urgent extraordinary situations (such as the provision of
       planned medical services, performance of an obligation imposed by a
       court, a travel taken in response to a summons from a government
       authority, execution of a court decision, an official meeting, an
       entrance exam for studies, a national equivalency test, necessary
       care of close family members who are unable to take care of
       themselves on their own, exercise of custody of a minor child or
       exercise of the right to be in contact with a minor child, other
       humanitarian situations), provided that the reason for the entry is
       supported by an adequate document;
    9. a foreign national who is provably in a permanent relationship as a
       partner with a citizen of the Czech Republic or a citizen of the
       European Union with temporary residence exceeding 90 days or
       permanent residence in the Czech Republic, based particularly on
       sharing the same household, and who has been issued with a
       certificate from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to allow
       him/her to enter the territory of the Czech Republic under this
       clause;
   10. to vaccinated persons with a national certificate on vaccination
       that has been carried out, to vaccinated persons with a national
       certificate of completed vaccination and to persons who have had
       COVID-19, and the period of stay will not be longer than the period
       of validity of the certificate;
   11. in case of a minor child travelling with his or her legal guardian
       or accompanying another person who holds a national vaccination
       certificate or a national certificate of completed vaccination, or
       who is a person who has undergone COVID-19, and the validity of the
       certificate is longer than the intended length of stay; this
       provision cannot be used for school trips and similar group
       arrivals;
   12. if the entry is in the interest of the Czech Republic’s foreign
       policy, which is decided only by the Minister of Foreign Affairs;
       provided that they meet the conditions for entering as defined in
       this Protective Measure and are otherwise authorised to enter the
       territory of the Czech Republic;

   III. determines

   1. that the list of countries or territories with a low, medium, high
   and very high risk of incidence of COVID-19 is made based on the
   criteria specified in Council Recommendation (EU) 2020/1475 on a
   coordinated approach to facilitate safe free movement during the
   COVID-19 pandemic, with the criteria being:
    1. the “14-day cumulative COVID-19 case notification rate”, i.e. the
       total number of newly notified COVID-19 cases per 100,000
       population in the last 14 days at regional level;
    2. the 'vaccination rate', i.e. the cumulative rate of complete
       vaccination rate by primary vaccination in the general population
       at regional level;
    3. the “testing rate”, i.e. the number of tests for COVID-19 infection
       conducted during the last week per 100,000 population; while the
       following conditions also apply: to achieve an overall score, the
       fortnightly case reporting rate (C) should be weighted by the
       vaccination rate (V) in the region. If the value of either of these
       two criteria is not available at regional level, the value at
       national level should be used. The following formula should be used
       for this purpose: (C+C*(100-V)/100)/2=weighted rate and therefore


    1. the list of countries or territories with a low risk of incidence
       of COVID-19 always contains the Member States of the European Union
       or, as the case may be, their parts, for which the weighted rate is
       lower than 40,
    2. the list of countries or territories with a medium risk of
       incidence of COVID-19 contains the Member States of the European
       Union or, as the case may be, their parts, for which the weighted
       rate is lower than 100, but higher than 40 or more,
    3. the list of countries or territories with a high risk of incidence
       of COVID-19 contains the Member States of the European Union or, as
       the case may be, their parts, for which the weighted rate is lower
       than 300, but higher than 100 or more,
    4. the list of countries or territories with a very high risk of
       incidence of COVID-19 contains the Member States of the European
       Union or, as the case may be, their parts, for which the weighted
       rate is higher than 300 and the testing rate is 600 or less,

   the list of countries or territories is issued in the form of a
   protective measure;

   2. that complying with the obligation to present a Public Health
   Passenger Locator Form means presenting the form in such a format,
   which allows for definite identification of the holder and checking the
   filled out information; an electronic Public Health Passenger Locator
   Form is available on the website www.prijezdovyformular.cz; the
   personal data processed beyond the framework of Section 79(1) of Act
   No. 258/2000 Coll. are the number of the travel document, citizenship,
   electronic mail address and telephone number; by filling out and
   sending an Public Health Passenger Locator Form, the regional Public
   Health Office with jurisdiction over the person’s domicile or the
   person’s reported place of residence is notified, via remote access, of
   the person’s entry into the territory of the Czech Republic;
   information related to the person's stay abroad (visited countries) and
   the means of arrival to the Czech Republic, as well as information on
   the place of residence in the Czech Republic; the length of data
   retention is 3 months from the submitting of the Public Health
   Passenger Locator Form; access to the database of Public Health
   Passenger Locator Forms is possible according to Section 79(1) of Act
   on the Protection of Public Health by employees of the Regional Public
   Health Offices, Section of Public Health Protection and Support of the
   Ministry of Health and The Institute of Health Information and
   Statistics of the Czech Republic, for the purpose of activities focused
   on preventing or minimizing the import of COVID-19 disease into the
   Czech Republic, or preventing or minimizing further spread, in
   particular, to detect cases for sequencing samples, contact tracing,
   sanctioning for breach of obligations, in particular under this
   protective measure and the collection and analysis of anonymised
   statistical data;

   3. that a test for detection of the presence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus/a
   test means:
    1. for antigen testing, a written certificate of the negative result
       of a rapid antigen test (RAT), which is not older than 24 hours
       from the date of the antigen test and it is a test included in the
       common and updated list of RAT tests established by the Council
       Recommendation of 21 January 2021 on a common framework for the use
       and validation of rapid antigen tests and the mutual recognition of
       COVID-19 test results in the EU;
    2. for RT-PCR testing, a written certificate of the negative result of
       an RT-PCR test, which is not older than 72 hours from the date of
       the RT-PCR test, issued by a person authorised to carry out this
       test in the country where it was carried out;

   if it is a test carried out in a territory, which is subject to the
   Regulation of the European Union on the Digital COVID Certificate1 , or
   in the territory of a third country, for which an implementing act was
   adopted pursuant to the Regulation of the European Union on the EU
   Digital COVID Certificate1 , the result will only be proved by a
   certificate of the test issued in accordance with the Regulation of the
   European Union on the Digital Covid Certificate2 ;

   4. that a vaccinated person with a national certificate on vaccination
   that has been carried out means a person who presents a valid national
   certificate on vaccination against COVID-19 that has been carried out,
   issued under the Regulation of the European Union on the EU Digital
   COVID Certificate3 , provided that at least 14 days elapsed from
   completion of the vaccination scheme, and in the case of a person who
   has reached the age of 18 and at the same time a maximum of 270 days
   elapsed from completion of vaccination scheme or has been vaccinated
   with a booster dose, and who does not show any symptoms of COVID-19;

   5. that a vaccinated person with a national certificate on completed
   vaccination means a person who presents a valid national certificate on
   completed vaccination against COVID19 as referred to in clauses III.6
   or III.7, provided that at least 14 days elapsed from completion of the
   vaccination scheme, and in the case of a person who has reached the age
   of 18 and at the same time a maximum of 270 days elapsed from
   completion of vaccination scheme or has been vaccinated with a booster
   dose, and who does not show any symptoms of COVID-19; provided that the
   person was vaccinated using:
    1. a medicinal product containing a vaccine against COVID-19, which
       was granted registration under Regulation (EC) No 726/2004; or
    2. a medicinal product, the production of which is in accordance with
       the patent of the medicinal product referred to in item a),
       provided that this medicinal product was also approved by the World
       Health Organisation for emergency use; the list of products
       referred to in items a) and b) is published on the website of the
       Ministry of Health;

   6. that a national certificate of completed vaccination means a written
   confirmation issued at least in the English language by an authorised
   person operating in a third country, which is not the country issuing
   the certificate referred to in clause III.7 is in the list of
   recognised national certificates on the website of the Ministry of
   Health; the written confirmation must contain information on the
   vaccinated person, the type of vaccine administered, the date of
   administration of the vaccine, identification of the entity, which
   issued the confirmation, and
    1. it must be possible to verify this information directly from the
       written conformation via a remote access;
    2. it is a third country in which vaccination with a medicinal product
       is carried out in accordance with clause III.5, the vaccination
       rate is higher than in the Czech Republic, the country provides
       reliable and verifiable data on the pandemic and cooperates within
       international organizations combating the pandemics;

   7. that a national certificate of completed vaccination is also deemed
   to be a certificate on completed vaccination issued to a vaccinated
   person according to clause III.5 by an authorised person operating in a
   third country, for which the implementing Act was adopted according to
   the Regulation of the European Union on the EU Digital COVID
   Certificate4 and the template which is in the same time published in
   the list of national certificates on the website of the Ministry of
   Health;

   8. that a person who has had COVID-19 is deemed to be that person who
   presents a certificate that he/she has had COVID-19, issued according
   to the Regulation of the European Union on the Digital COVID
   Certificate5 or by an authorised entity operating in a third country,
   for which the implementing Act was adopted under the Regulation of the
   European Union on the EU Digital COVID Certificate6 , and at least 11
   days but no more than 180 days elapsed from the first positive result
   of an RT-PCR test for detection of the presence of the SARS-CoV-2
   virus; if the certificate has been issued by a third country, it must
   be in the same time published in the list of national certificates on
   the website of the Ministry of Health, which is identical to the list
   according to clause III.7;

   9. that a person who has had COVID-19 is also deemed to be a holder of
   a diplomatic note, issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; such
   holders can be citizens of the Czech Republic and their co-travelling
   family members with an issued temporary residence permit for the
   territory of the Czech Republic, citizens of the European Union with an
   issued certificate of temporary residence in the territory of the Czech
   Republic or foreign nationals with a permanent residence permit for the
   territory of the Czech Republic issued by the Czech Republic,
   certifying a documented completed isolation due to COVID-19 in the
   country of departure before their entry into the territory of the Czech
   Republic; a diplomatic note is not usually issued earlier than 14 days
   after the first positive result of an RT-PCR test for detection of the
   presence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and it cannot be used for purposes of
   the applications referred to in clause I.15 and for purposes of an
   entry referred to in clause II.1;

   10. that necessary travel means restriction of free movement to the
   absolutely necessary minimum, with the exception of:
    1. travels absolutely necessary to procure the basic necessities of
       life and to ensure care of children; b) travels absolutely
       necessary to procure items to take care of animals, to use the
       necessary financial and postal services, to refuel;
    2. urgent or otherwise necessary travels to a provider of healthcare
       services;
    3. travels to social services facility;
    4. travels to take care of urgent official matters;
    5. funerals;

   11. that a citizen of a third country is a foreign national, except for
   a citizen of the European Union and a foreign national within the
   meaning of Section 1(3) of Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the Residence of
   Foreign Nationals in the Territory of the Czech Republic and on changes
   to certain Acts, as amended;

   12. that for the purposes of this Protective Measure, Member States of
   the European Union are deemed to include, in addition to the Member
   States of the European, the Principality of Andorra, the Republic of
   Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein, the Principality of Monaco,
   the Kingdom of Norway, the Republic of San Marino, the Swiss
   Confederation and the Vatican City State; all other countries are
   deemed to be third countries;

   13. that for the purposes of this Protective Measure, the term “written
   confirmation” means both a hardcopy format (an original or a simple
   copy) and an electronic format, as long as it contains the name,
   surname and date of birth or the number of the travel document of a
   specific addressee; a written confirmation in an electronic format
   cannot be presented in the form of an SMS message;

   14. that the holders of diplomatic notes on the impossibility to take a
   test for detection of the presence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus in the
   country of departure can be citizens of the Czech Republic and their
   co-travelling family members with an issued temporary residence permit
   for the territory of the Czech Republic, citizens of the European Union
   with an issued certificate of temporary residence in the territory of
   the Czech Republic, foreign nationals with a permanent residence permit
   for the territory of the Czech Republic issued by the Czech Republic
   and the workers servicing critical infrastructure, whose performance of
   their activities is in the interest of the Czech Republic;

   15. that a means of public transport is such a means of transport, in
   which persons who are not members of the same household are being
   transported at the given moment;

   16. that if an embassy of the Czech Republic is accredited for more
   countries then the current inclusion of the given country in the list
   of countries or territories with a low, medium, high and very high risk
   of incidence of COVID-19 is decisive for the acceptance and processing
   of visa applications and residence permit applications from each of the
   countries.

   17. that individual transport is a journey by such means of transport
   in which only persons who are members of the same household are
   transported at a given moment

   18. that the rate in the Czech Republic is published here:
   https://www.mzcr.cz/tiskove-centrum/datove-tiskove-zpravy-ke-covid-19/

   II.

   With effect as of 15 February 2022 at 00:00, the Protective Measure of
   the Ministry of Health dated 23 December 2021, ref. no.: MZDR
   20599/2020-139/MIN/KAN, have been repealed.

   III.

   This Protective Measure has become effective on the date on which it
   has been issued.

Vaccination campaign action plan

   The Government

   I. acknowledges the information from the Minister of Health on the
   Methodical Instruction for the Vaccination Campaign Action plan
   (hereinafter the “Methodical Instruction”) contained in part III of
   material Ref. No. 37/21;

   II. issues preliminary consent to the Ministry of Health’s intention to
   issue:

   1. an extraordinary measure which, effective from 14 January 2021,
   orders all healthcare service providers that have been supplied with a
   medicinal product containing a vaccination substance against COVID-19,
   procured using government budget funds based on Commission Decision
   C(2020) 4192, to perform the vaccination of persons participating in
   the public health insurance system in the Czech Republic or persons who
   are entitled to the provision of healthcare services in the Czech
   Republic, as though they were participants in the public health
   insurance system in the Czech Republic, in accordance with the
   Methodical Instruction and related activities, set forth in Annex No. 1
   to this resolution,

   2. an extraordinary measure which, effective from 12:00 a.m. of 14
   January 2021, orders all healthcare service providers that have
   established a distribution vaccination center, large-capacity
   vaccination center or vaccination center in compliance with the
   Methodical Instruction, upon any reception or dispensing of the vaccine
   against COVID-19, even to another healthcare service provider, to
   submit to the National Vaccination Dispatching on an ongoing basis via
   the defined electronic reporting system of the Covid Forms App web
   application and related activities, set forth in Annex No. 2 to this
   resolution;

   III. orders the Ministry of Health to evaluate the application practice
   of the Methodical Instruction after 14 days and to potentially amend
   the Methodical Instruction based on this evaluation and inform the
   government of this fact immediately.

Vaccination from 15 January 2022

   The Ministry of Health, as the competent administrative authority,
   pursuant to Section 80(1)(g) of Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on Public
   Health Protection and on the amendment of certain related acts, as
   amended (hereinafter “Act No. 258/2000 Coll.”) and Section 2(1) of Act
   No. 94/2021 Coll., on Extraordinary Measures during the COVID-19
   Disease Epidemic and on the amendment of certain related acts
   (hereinafter “Act No. 69 Coll.), orders this Extraordinary Measure,
   proceeding pursuant to Section 1(69)(b) and (2) of Act No. 258/2000
   Coll., and pursuant to Section 2(2)(b) through (e), (h), (i) and (m) of
   Act No. 94/2021 Coll., in order to protect the population against the
   further spread of the COVID-19 disease caused by the novel SARS-CoV-2
   coronavirus:

   1. Effective from 15 February 2022, the Extraordinary Measure of the
   Ministry of Health of 30 August 2021, Ref. No. MZDR
   32802/2021-1/MIN/KAN, as amended by the Extraordinary Measure of the
   Ministry of Health of 10 September 2021, Ref. No.
   MZDR 32802/2021-3/MIN/KAN, is amended in that in point I/2(b), the
   words “at least 14 days have passed since the completion of the
   vaccination schedule;” are replaced by “at least 14 days have passed
   since the completion of the vaccination schedule and, in the case of a
   person at least 18 years of age, not more than 270 days have passed or
   they have received a booster dose;”.

   2. Effective from 15 February 2022, the Extraordinary Measure of the
   Ministry of Health of 27 October 2021, Ref. No. MZDR
   15757/2020-61/MIN/KAN, as amended by the Extraordinary Measure of the
   Ministry of Health of 10 November 2021, Ref. No. MZDR 15757/2020-
   62/MIN/KAN, and as amended by the Extraordinary Measure of the Ministry
   of Health of 13 December 2021, Ref. No. MZDR 15757/2020-63/MIN/KAN, is
   amended in that
    1. in point I/2(e) the words “at least 14 days have passed since the
       completion of the vaccination schedule based on the summary of
       product characteristics” are replaced with “at least 14 days have
       passed since the completion of the vaccination schedule and in the
       case of employees at least 18 years of age, not more than 270 days
       have passed or they have received a booster dose”,
    2. in point I/2(f) the words “at least 14 days have passed since the
       completion of the vaccination schedule based on the summary of
       product characteristics” are replaced with “at least 14 days have
       passed since the completion of the vaccination schedule and in the
       case of persons at least 18 years of age, not more than 270 days
       have passed or they have received a booster dose”.

   3. Effective from 15 February 2022, the Extraordinary Measure of the
   Ministry of Health of 18 November 2021, Ref. No. MZDR
   47828/2020-31/MIN/KAN, as amended by the Extraordinary Measure of the
   Ministry of Health of 14 January 2022, Ref. No.
   MZDR 1519/2022-1/MIN/KAN, is amended in that that in point II(d), the
   words “at least 14 days have passed since the completion of the
   vaccination schedule;” are replaced by “at least 14  days have passed
   since the completion of the vaccination schedule and, in the case of a
   person at least 18 years of age, not more than 270 days have passed or
   they have received a booster dose;”.

   4. Effective from 15 February 2022, the Extraordinary Measure of the
   Ministry of Health of 18 November 2021, Ref. No. MZDR
   14597/2021-5/MIN/KAN, is amended in that that in point I/1(c) and in
   point I/3(c), the words “at least 14 days have passed since the
   completion of the vaccination schedule;” are replaced by “at least 14
   days have passed since the completion of the vaccination schedule and,
   in the case of a person at least 18 years of age, not more than 270
   days have passed or they have received a booster dose;”.

   5. Effective from 15 February 2022, the Extraordinary Measure of the
   Ministry of Health of 22 November 2021, Ref. No. MZDR
   423/2021-1/MIN/KAN, is amended in that in point 2(a), the words “at
   least 14 days have passed since the completion of the vaccination
   schedule;” are replaced by “at least 14 days have passed since the
   completion of the vaccination schedule and, in the case of a person at
   least 18 years of age, not more than 270 days have passed or they have
   received a booster dose;”.

   6. Effective from 15 February 2022, the Extraordinary Measure of the
   Ministry of Health of 29 December 2021, Ref. No. MZDR
   14601/2021-34/MIN/KAN, as amended by the Extraordinary Measure of the
   Ministry of Health of 14 January 2022, Ref. No.
   MZDR 1518/2022-1/MIN/KAN, is amended in that in point I/15(b), the
   words “at least 14 days have passed since the completion of the
   vaccination schedule;” are replaced by “at least 14 days have passed
   since the completion of the vaccination schedule and, in the case of a
   person at least 18 years of age, not more than 270 days have passed or
   they have received a booster dose;”.

   7. Effective from 15 February 2022, the Extraordinary Measure of the
   Ministry of Health of 14 January 2021, Ref. No. MZDR
   1520/2022-1/MIN/KAN, is amended in that in point I/2(c), the words “at
   least 18 days have passed since the completion of the vaccination
   schedule;” are replaced by “at least 270 days have passed since the
   completion of the vaccination schedule and, in the case of a employees
   at least 18 years of age, not more than 270 days have passed or they
   have received a booster dose;”.

   8. Effective from 15 February 2022, the Extraordinary Measure of the
   Ministry of Health of 26 January 2022, Ref. No. MZDR
   1515/2022-2/MIN/KAN, is amended in that in point XIV/1(a), the words
   “at least 14 days have passed since the completion of the vaccination
   schedule;” are replaced by “at least 14 days have passed since the
   completion of the vaccination schedule and, in the case of a student at
   least 18 years of age, not more than 270 days have passed or they have
   received a booster dose;”.

Reporting of test results into the ISIN

   The Ministry of Health, as the competent administrative authority,
   pursuant to Section 80(1)(g) of Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on Public
   Health Protection and amendments to certain related acts, as amended
   (hereinafter referred to as “Act No. 258/2000 Coll.”), orders this
   Extraordinary Measure, proceeding pursuant to Section 69(1)(i) and (2)
   of Act No. 258/2000 Coll., in order to protect the population and
   prevent the occurrence and spread of the COVID-19 disease caused by the
   new SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus:

   I.

   Effective from 9 March 2021, all healthcare service providers who
   perform examinations to determine the presence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus
   antigen using POC antigen tests are ordered to report, electronically
   and without undue delay, information about every result of the POC
   antigen tests to determine the presence of SARS-CoV-2 virus antigen
   into the Information System of Infectious Diseases (ISIN). A mandatory
   part of the reported information about the result of the POC antigen
   test is information about whether the patient is symptomatic or
   asymptomatic.

   II.

   Effective from 9 March 2021, the Extraordinary Measure of 21 December
   2020, Ref. No. MZDR 60890/2020-1/MIN/KAN, is repealed.

   III.

   This Extraordinary Measure takes effect on the date it is issued.

Visits at  healthcare and social service institutions

   The Ministry of Health, as the competent administrative authority,
   pursuant to Section 80(1)(g) of Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on Public
   Health Protection and on the amendment of certain related acts, as
   amended, and Section 2(1) of Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on Extraordinary
   Measures during the COVID-19 Disease Epidemic and on the amendment of
   certain related acts, orders this Extraordinary Measure, proceeding
   pursuant to Section 69(1)(i) and (2) of Act No. 258/2000 Coll., and
   pursuant to Section 2(2)(b) of Act No. 94/2021 Coll., in order to
   protect the population against the further spread of the COVID-19
   disease caused by the novel SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus:

   I.

   Effective from 12:00 a.m. on 22 November 2021 until the cancellation of
   this Extraordinary Measure:

   1. visits to patients at healthcare facilities are restricted among all
   healthcare service providers, in that visits may only be permitted
   under the condition that the person visiting the patient does not show
   clinical symptoms of COVID-19, and (with the exception of children
   under 12 years of age) demonstrates to the healthcare service provider
   that they meet the following conditions:
    1. the person has taken an RT-PCR test for the presence of the
       SARS-CoV-2 virus antigen with a negative result no more than 72
       hours ago, or
    2. the person has taken a rapid antigen test (RAT) for the presence of
       the SARS-CoV-2 antigen with a negative result no more than 24 hours
       ago, carried out by a healthcare professional, or the person has
       been vaccinated against COVID-19 and submits a national certificate
       of completed vaccination or a certificate of completed vaccination
       issued pursuant to the European Union regulation on the EU COVID
       digital certificate EU COVID1 , under the condition that at least
       14 days have passed since the completion of the vaccination
       program;a national certificate of performed vaccination refers to a
       written confirmation issued at least in the English language by an
       authorized entity operating in a third country, a specimen of which
       is published in the list of recognized national certificates on the
       website of the Ministry of Health; the written confirmation must
       contain data about the vaccinated person, administered type of
       vaccine, date of administration of the vaccine and identification
       of the entity that issued the confirmation of that vaccination,
       whereas these data must be verifiable via remote access directly
       from the written confirmation, assuming vaccination was performed
       using


    1. a medicinal product containing a COVID-19 vaccine granted market
       authorization under Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004, or
    2. a medicinal product manufactured in accordance with a patent for
       the medicinal product pursuant to point i), if this medicinal
       product has been approved by the World Health Organization for
       emergency use; or


    3. the person has undergone a laboratory-confirmed case of COVID-19,
       where the period of ordered isolation has ended, and no more than
       180 days have passed since the first positive RT-PCR test for the
       presence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus or rapid antigen test (RAT) for
       the presence of the SARS-CoV-2 antigen,

   unless the healthcare service provider stipulates otherwise in
   justified cases by means of an organizational measure; the person
   visiting a patient who fulfils one of the listed conditions may conduct
   the visit while observing the provider’s other systemic measures,

   2. prohibits all healthcare service providers from allowing the
   presence of a third party during childbirth at a healthcare facility,
   if the following conditions are not met:
     * childbirth takes place in a separate birthing room or box with its
       own social amenities,
     * contact between the third party and other birthing mothers is
       restricted,
     * a third person is subject to the same rules as person visiting a
       patient pursuant to point 1,

   3. visits to users among all social service providers, at homes for
   seniors and homes with special regimes, and all social service
   residential facilities (pursuant to Section 44, 49 and 50 of Act No.
   108/2006 Coll., on Social Services), are restricted in that visits may
   only be permitted under the condition that the person visiting the user
   does not show clinical symptoms of COVID-19 and (with the exception of
   children under 12 years of age) demonstrates to the social service
   provider that they meet the following conditions:
    1. the person has taken an RT-PCR test for the presence of the
       SARS-CoV-2 virus antigen with a negative result no more than 72
       hours ago, or
    2. the person has taken a rapid antigen test (RAT) for the presence of
       the SARS-CoV-2 antigen with a negative result no more than 24 hours
       ago, carried out by a healthcare professional, or
    3. the person has been vaccinated against COVID-19 and submits a
       national certificate of completed vaccination or a certificate of
       completed vaccination issued pursuant to the European Union
       regulation on the EU COVID digital certificate1 , under the
       condition that at least 14 days have passed since the completion of
       the vaccination program; a national certificate of completed
       vaccination refers to a written confirmation issued at least in the
       English language by the authorized entity operating in a third
       country, a specimen of which is published in the list of recognized
       national certificates on the website of the Ministry of Health; the
       written confirmation must contain data about the vaccinated person,
       administered type of vaccine, date of administration of the
       vaccine, identification of the entity that issued the confirmation
       of that vaccination, whereas these data must be verifiable via
       remote access directly from the written confirmation, assuming the
       vaccination was performed using


    1. a medicinal product containing a COVID-19 vaccine granted market
       authorization under Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004, or
    2. a medicinal product manufactured in accordance with a patent for
       the medicinal product pursuant to point i), if this medicinal
       product has been approved by the World Health Organization for
       emergency use; or


    4. the person has undergone a laboratory-confirmed case of COVID-19,
       where the period of ordered isolation has ended, and no more than
       180 days have passed since the first positive RT-PCR test for the
       presence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus or rapid antigen test (RAT) for
       the presence of the SARS-CoV-2 antigen, unless the social services
       provider stipulates otherwise in justified cases by means of an
       organizational measure; the person visiting a user who fulfils one
       of the listed conditions may conduct the visit while observing the
       provider’s other systemic measures.

   II.

   Effective from 12:00 a.m. on 22 November 2021, the Extraordinary
   Measure of the Ministry of Health of 5 November 2021, Ref. No. MZDR
   14597/2021-4/MIN/KAN, is repealed.

The obligation to wear face masks

   The Ministry of Health, as the competent administrative authority
   pursuant to Section 80(1)(g) of Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on Public
   Health Protection and amendments to Certain Related Acts, as amended
   (hereinafter referred to as “Act No. 258/2000 Coll.”), orders this
   Extraordinary Measure, proceeding pursuant to Section 69(1)(i) and (2)
   of Act No. 258/2000 Coll., to protect the population and prevent the
   occurrence and spread of COVID-19 caused by the novel SARS-CoV-2
   coronavirus:

   I.

   1. Effective from 12:00 a.m. of 1 November 2021 until this
   Extraordinary Measure is rescinded, all persons are prohibited from
   moving around and being present without the protection of their airways
   (nose, mouth), which is a respirator or similar device (always without
   an exhalation valve) meeting at least all the technical conditions and
   requirements (for the product), including a filtration effectiveness of
   at least 94% in accordance with the relevant standards, which prevents
   the spread of droplets, specifically:
    1. in the internal spaces of buildings that serve as a:


    1. retail outlet;
    2. service provision outlet;
    3. healthcare facility;
    4. social service buildings, such as weekly care centers, homes for
       persons with medical handicaps, homes for senior citizens and homes
       with a special regime, and facilities providing facilitating social
       services in residential form;
    5. international airports;
    6. universities, schools or school facilities, with the exception of
       primary school pupils during education at primary school, school
       groups or school clubs, pupils on the lower levels of six-year and
       eight-year high school during education at high school, pupils of
       the first four years of an eight-year conservatory curriculum
       during education at a conservatory, if they use a medical face mask
       or similar device meeting at least all the technical conditions and
       requirements (for the product) of the CSN EN 14683+AC standard that
       prevent the spreading of droplets,
    7. museums, galleries, exhibition grounds, publicly accessible
       historical or cultural monuments (castles, chateaux or similar
       historical monuments, etc.), observatories and planetariums or
       places where trade fairs or retail economic exhibitions are held,
    8. gambling halls, casinos, music, dance, gaming and similar social
       clubs or discotheques,


    2. in all other indoor premises of buildings not specified in point
       2(a), except for the place of residence or accommodation (e.g.
       hotel room), where there are at least 2 persons present in the same
       place at the same time at a distance of less than 1.5 meters,
       unless these are exclusively members of one household.
    3. in means of public transit, including vehicular transit for third
       party use, the subject of which is passenger transport (in
       particular taxi service),
    4. as concerns attendees at concerts and other musical, theatre, film
       or other artistic performances, circuses and variety shows and
       sports matches,
    5. during participation at congresses, educational events and
       examinations in person,
    6. during participation at public or private events, including
       assemblies pursuant to Act No. 84/1990 Coll., on the Right of
       Assembly, as amended, during which multiple persons gather in one
       place, unless these are members of one household; this applies
       to outdoor premises in cases when the event is attended by 30 or
       more people, where they do not maintain a distance of 1.5
       meters, with the exception of children under 15 years of age, who
       may also wear different types of protective equipment at these
       places, such as a medical face mask or similar device meeting at
       least all the technical conditions and requirements (for the
       product) under CSN EN 14683+AC, which prevents the spread of
       droplets, unless they are subject to the exception under point 2.

   In exceptional cases, when it is necessary for the child, pupil or
   student to see the teacher’s mouth during teaching, it is possible for
   the teacher to use a protective shield as protective respiratory
   equipment, under the condition that they maintain a distance of
   at least 1.5 meters from the children, pupils or students. Pupils or
   students performing practice, practical schooling or practical training
   at the workplaces of legal entities and natural persons shall observe
   the rules applied to employees at this workplace.

   2. The prohibition pursuant to paragraph 1 does not apply to:
    1. children that have not yet commenced mandatory school attendance;
       this does not apply to children in preparatory classes of primary
       school and children in the preparatory level of special primary
       school,
    2. children, pupils and students as a part of educational activities
       for which the wearing of protective equipment is impossible (in
       particular physical education, singing and playing wind
       instruments),
    3. teaching staff members or academic workers as a part of educational
       activities whose character does not enable the wearing of a
       protective device (in particular physical education, singing and
       playing wind instruments), if they maintain a distance of at
       least 1.5 metres from others,
    4. children in preparatory classes of primary school, children in the
       preparatory level of special primary school, pupils and students
       during schooling who are seated at a desk or otherwise seated,
    5. teaching staff members or academic workers that were vaccinated
       against COVID-19 and at least 14 days have passed since the
       completion of the vaccination programme in accordance with the
       summary of product characteristics, during the provision
       of education,
    6. carers in a children’s group that were vaccinated against COVID-19
       and at least 14 days have passed since the completion of the
       vaccination programme in accordance with the summary of product
       characteristics, during the provision of care in accordance with
       Act No. 47/2014 Coll., on the Provision of Child Care Services in a
       Children’s Group and Amending Related Acts, as amended,
    7. examined persons and examiners at school or university, if all the
       persons maintain a distance of at least 1.5 meters,
    8. accommodated children, pupils or students while staying in their
       room (i.e., outside of the common areas) at a boarding school or
       children’s home or during school field trips;
    9. children and employees in educational facilities for the
       performance of institutional education or protective education and
       schools established as a part of them and centers of educational
       care when providing services in the form of boarding;
   10. schools established by the Ministry of Justice;
   11. children and employees at facilities for children requiring
       immediate assistance,
   12. persons with intellectual disorders, disorders on the autistic
       spectrum and cognitive disorders or severe alterations of their
       mental state, whose mental capacity or current mental state does
       not allow them to observe this prohibition;
   13. patients, if they are hospitalised in inpatient healthcare
       facilities or if this is necessary for the provision of healthcare
       services;
   14. healthcare workers for the necessary period of time, if required
       for the provision of healthcare services;
   15. social service users in social service buildings, such as weekly
       care centers, homes for persons with a medical handicap, homes for
       senior citizens and homes with a special regime, and in facilities
       providing facilitating social services in residential form;
   16. other cases worthy of consideration that are stipulated by a
       healthcare or social service provider or attending doctor for
       movement and staying in healthcare facilities and social service
       facilities;
   17. persons while performing work at the workplace or while performing
       similar activities, for the period when they perform this activity
       in one place without the presence of other persons,
   18. persons while performing work at the workplace or while performing
       similar activities in accordance with adopted and implemented
       hygiene, technical, organisational and other measures to prevent
       risks stipulated by the employer in accordance with Section 102
       of Act No. 262/2006 Coll., the Labour Code, as amended, provided
       they are equipped, at least, with other protective devices, which
       are a medical face mask or similar device fulfilling at least all
       the technical conditions and requirements (for the product) of
       the CSN EN 14683+AC standard, that prevent the spread of droplets,
   19. persons driving public transport vehicles who are not in direct
       contact with passengers during their boarding and alighting;
   20. judges, lay assessors, public prosecutors, accused persons and
       their defense counsel, parties to civil, administrative and
       constitutional court proceedings and their representatives,
       witnesses, experts, interpreters and other persons on which a
       court decides, in the place and at the time of the court
       proceedings;
   21. persons performing copyrighted works (e.g. theatre, dance or
       musical performances), lecturers and persons participating in the
       creation and production of audio-visual works or programs;
   22. hosts, reporters and other persons appearing on radio, television
       and other programs;
   23. persons performing work classified by a decision of the competent
       public health protection authority in category three or four due to
       the risk factor affecting working conditions of heat stress, and
       also persons performing work which has not yet been categorised and
       for which it can be anticipated that, after categorization has
       been performed, it will be classified in category three or four due
       to the presence of a risk factor affecting working conditions of
       heat stress;
   24. customers of catering establishments while consuming food and
       meals, including drinks, subject to the condition that the customer
       is sitting at a table;
   25. persons outside catering establishments for the necessary period
       for the consumption of food and meals, including drinks;
   26. a couple being married over the course of the wedding ceremony and
       other persons attending the ceremony, and persons declaring that
       they are entering into registered partnership together and other
       persons attending this declaration;
   27. persons for the essential time needed to take their portrait
       photograph, or photographs of newlyweds, including a group
       photograph with household members and other direct relatives, and
       other close persons and persons for the period of time required to
       take photographs during photography sessions organised by the
       school or school facility,
   28. athletes or persons exercising during training, exercises, matches,
       competitions, etc., including running and cycling, and trainers,
       other team members within the framework of collective sports, and
       referees during participation in sporting activities or
       training conducted within competitions organised by sports unions
       or umbrella sports organizations,
   29. persons on the premises of artificial swimming areas, swimming
       pools, bathing pools, pools for infants and toddlers and paddling
       pools, spa and therapeutic pools, saunas, wellness facilities and
       salt caves,
   30. persons for the period of time necessary to provide services which
       are provided to the  person in the area of their head and neck and
       where use of protective equipment would prevent the provision of
       this service, such as barber shops, hairdressing salons, solariums,
       cosmetic, massage and similar regenerative or reconditioning
       services or other similar services during which skin integrity is
       breached,
   31. persons during the organised activity of choirs, and only at the
       place of actual performance of the activity (singing) and during
       this activity,
   32. persons participating in rehabilitation events or other similar
       events, both residential and non-residential, events or persons
       under 18 years of age when staying in and moving about the indoor
       and outdoor venue of the event (e.g., campground) and in
       the countryside, if no other mass event is held concurrently in the
       same place,
   33. members and employees of the basic components of the Integrated
       Rescue System, if they use a mask or half mask meeting all of the
       technical conditions and requirements (for the product) of the CSN
       EN 140 +A1 standard,
   34. persons who are unable for serious medical reasons to wear a
       respirator or medical face mask or similar device fulfilling at
       least all the technical conditions and requirements (for the
       product) of the CSN EN 14683+AC standard, that prevent the spread
       of droplets, and who are able to prove this fact by a medical
       certificate; however, such persons shall be required to wear other
       respiratory protective equipment pursuant to this measure, which is
       specified in the medical certificate, except where the
       medical certificate specifically states that the person concerned
       cannot wear any respiratory protective equipment.

   3. Effective from 12:00 a.m. of 1 November 2021 until this
   Extraordinary Measure is rescinded, all employers are ordered to equip
   employees with respirators, in a sufficient number for each work shift;
   this does not apply if the employee does not come into contact with
   other persons during the period of work performance and in connection
   with work performance (e.g., remote work performance outside of the
   employer’s premises).

   4. Effective from 12:00 a.m. on 1 November 2021 until this
   Extraordinary Measure is rescinded, all healthcare service providers
   are directed to only issue a certificate under paragraph 2(hh) to
   persons who are prevented from using respiratory protective
   equipment pursuant to this measure for serious medical reasons, and are
   further directed to make a record of that fact and the reasons for it,
   including the diagnosis, in the person's medical records, including
   that the natural person has been advised of the risks associated with
   not using respiratory protective equipment pursuant to this measure.

   II.

   Effective from 12:00 a.m. of 1 November 2021, this Extraordinary
   Measure repeals the Extraordinary Measure of the Ministry of Health of
   22 October 2021, Ref. No. MZDR 15757/2020- 60/MIN/KAN.

   print article   email   facebook   twitter

Hotline 1221

   COVID-19 information hotline (dial 1221) is also available in English
   from anywhere in the Czech Republic on weekdays from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m.
   and on weekends from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.

Useful information

   Current information on COVID-19 on the website of the Ministry of
   Health – information for citizens and healthcare workers, current data.

   The European coronavirus response team

Related items

   9. 2. 2022
          Measures adopted by the Czech Government against the coronavirus

   25. 11. 2021
          The Government Decides to Proclaim a State of Emergency for 30
          days, Limit Mass Events, Restaurants Operation or Alcohol
          Consumption in Public

   20. 10. 2021
          The Government Discussed Changes in Anti-epidemic Measures

   23. 8. 2021
          Preventive tests for Covid-19 will remain free for all insured,
          government decides

   1. 7. 2021
          Government agrees to tighten anti-epidemic measures due to the
          spread of the more contagious Delta mutation of the coronavirus

   28. 6. 2021
          Government approves aid to people and municipalities in South
          Moravia affected by a natural disaster

   14. 6. 2021
          Non-state cultural heritage sites will also receive financial
          support during the epidemic, pupils in other regions will put
          away their masks and respi

   7. 6. 2021
          Government worked on the 2022 state budget, approved the next
          steps in the dispute with Poland over mining in the Turów mine

   31. 5. 2021
          The government will propose extraordinary increase in pensions
          by CZK 300, and has extended the Antivirus A programme by a
          month

   28. 5. 2021
          All remaining services to open under set conditions from Monday,
          the government agrees

   24. 5. 2021
          Government discusses Coal Commission outcomes and emergency
          measure amendments while deciding to help at-risk women tackle
          menstrual poverty

   21. 5. 2021
          Government to set rules for COVID passports, agreed with
          extending the protection period after recovering from COVID-19
          from 90 to 180 days

   17. 5. 2021
          Government approved proposal of National Recovery Plan for
          nearly 200 billion, agreed with further easement of epidemic
          control measures

   10. 5. 2021
          From tomorrow, self-payers may stay at spas, on Monday,
          restaurants open outdoor seating and cultural life resumes,
          government approved

   6. 5. 2021
          Restrictions to ease in remaining regions from Monday as
          government extends compensation bonus and covid programmes

   3. 5. 2021
          The Government Discussed a Proposal for the Next Phase of
          Loosening Anti-Epidemic Measures from 10 May

   29. 4. 2021
          From Monday, Children in Three Other Regions and in Prague will
          Return to Schools and Kindergartens, the Government Agreed

   26. 4. 2021
          Hairdressers and other body care services will open on 3 May,
          more pupils will return to schools in three regions

   22. 4. 2021
          The Government Has Discussed a Plan for Further Restriction
          Lifting, Which Will Depend on the Number of Newly Infected Cases
          in the Population

   19. 4. 2021
          The government extended the Antivirus programme, and approved
          the National Strategy for Countering Hybrid Action

   12. 4. 2021
          Government extended the guarantee scheme for firms; the State
          will subsidise children's groups and labs sequencing coronavirus
          strains

   6. 4. 2021
          The state of emergency to end on Monday, some restrictions will
          be lifted, first children back in schools and nurseries

   22. 3. 2021
          Government to ask the Chamber of Deputies to extend the state of
          emergency, mandatory testing for the self-employed and
          non-profit organisations

   18. 3. 2021
          The government has extended the measures up to 28 March and
          expanded the mandatory testing to public employers with less
          than 50 employees

   15. 3. 2021
          Mandatory employee testing even for small companies, the
          government decides

   8. 3. 2021
          The government approves bonuses for healthcare and social
          services workers, new programmes to help entrepreneurs

   5. 3. 2021
          The Government has imposed the work obligation on pupils and
          students of medical schools, testing will be mandatory for
          employees in the public sector

   3. 3. 2021
          The government calls outpatient physicians to arms in the battle
          against covid-19, obliging them to perform certain duties

   2. 3. 2021
          Employees will be allowed to eat in company canteens provided
          they keep a safe distance from each other

   1. 3. 2021
          The government will ask the Parliament to increase the
          compensation for persons in quarantine, employees to face
          mandatory testing

   26. 2. 2021
          The government declares state of emergency until 28 March, free
          movement and retail rules to be tightened from Monday, schools
          to close again

   25. 2. 2021
          The government will ask the Chamber of Deputies to extend the
          state of emergency until the end of March

   23. 2. 2021
          The Government has extended the Antivirus program until the end
          of April, people will have to wear a respirator or surgical
          masks in selected places f

   15. 2. 2021
          Government approves draft changes to crisis legislation and
          pilot project for testing in schools

   14. 2. 2021
          At the request of regional governors, government declares 14-day
          state of emergency

   11. 2. 2021
          The government has decided to restrict movement in the three
          worst affected districts

   8. 2. 2021
          The government asks the Chamber of Deputies for another 30 days
          of the state of emergency, and wants to simplify the support for
          enterpreneurs

   1. 2. 2021
          Government has agreed to temporarily waive VAT on respirators
          and to extend support for food producers

   28. 1. 2021
          The government has made adjustments to the measures, and further
          restrictions on the use of hotel services or contacts will be
          ordered from Saturday

   25. 1. 2021
          Government Approves State Guaranteed Loans for Hotel Proprietors

   22. 1. 2021
          Government extends duration of state of emergency until 14
          February, will allow children's groups to run

   18. 1. 2021
          Government to request that Chamber of Deputies extend state of
          emergency until 21 February, approves further assistance
          programmes for businesses

   13. 1. 2021
          Government acquaints itself with vaccination strategy for the
          Czech Republic, vaccination sites must start reporting on
          vaccine consumption

   11. 1. 2021
          Government approves aid to operators of ski resorts, students do
          not need to tax remuneration for work during work duties

   7. 1. 2021
          Government extends force of emergency measures to 22 January;
          antigen tests also to continue to be provided free of charge

   4. 1. 2021
          Government approves further aid for closed premises, wants to
          extend easier administration of social benefits during pandemic

   23. 12. 2020
          Government extends state of emergency for a further 30 days,
          with more stringent measures to take effect on 27 December

   21. 12. 2020
          Government discusses current pandemic situation and vaccination
          preparations

   17. 12. 2020
          Government to ask Chamber of Deputies to extend state of
          emergency to 22 January

   14. 12. 2020
          The government has decided that stricter 4th tier pandemic
          measures will start to apply on Friday; affected businesses will
          be helped by compensations

Media Centre

     * Press Advisories
     * Scheduled Events
     * Press Releases
     * Press Conferences
     * Introducing
     * Government Meetings
     * Important Documents
     * Important Information
     * Contacts

Important information

   Measures adopted by the Czech Government against coronavirus

   www.euroskop.cz

   Oslavme společné století

   Visegrad Group

   National Convention

Straka's Academy

   Straka's Academy

Press Department

   Press Department

Introducing

   Nová zmocněnkyně pro lidská práva Klára Šimáčková Laurenčíková.

Archive Documents

   Archive of Documents

Photo Gallery

   TZ-Albánie

     * Government of the Czech Republic (c) 2009 - 2022
     * RSS
     * Site map
     * Contact
     * Advanced search
     * Personal data protection
     *
