   #The Local » Feed The Local » Comments Feed The Local » LISTEN: How
   will the new government affect foreigners’ lives in Sweden? Comments
   Feed alternate alternate alternate

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-NMLDXPL

   Read news from:
   Austria
     * Europe
     * Austria
     * Denmark
     * France
     * Germany
     * Italy
     * Norway
     * Spain
     * Sweden
     * Switzerland

   Sweden's news in English
   The Local
     * News
          + Politics
          + Travel news
          + Covid-19
          + Brexit
     * Podcast
     * Practical tips
          + Moving to Sweden
          + Studying in Sweden
          + Living costs
          + Reader questions
          + Swedish citizenship
          + Pensions
          + Tax
          + Visas
     * Learn about Sweden
          + Travel – Discover Sweden
          + Swedish cuisine
          + Swedish history
          + Swedish habits
          + Swedish traditions
     * Property
          + Renting
          + Find rentals
     * Jobs
          + Working in Sweden
     * Learning Swedish

Sections

   Latest newsSweden in Focus PodcastCovid-19Practical tips
   Sweden: Learn about SwedenSweden: Learning SwedishBrexit

Membership

   My accountLog inStudent accessCorporate
   NewslettersHelp centerGift voucher

The Local

   Search siteContact us
   Who we areAdvertise with us

Editions

   AustriaEuropeGermanyNorwaySweden
   DenmarkFranceItalySpainSwitzerland

Services

   Jobs in SwedenNoticeboard
   Apartment rentals

SOCIAL

   Search ____________________ (BUTTON)

   SHARE
   COPY LINK

Paywall free

SWEDEN IN FOCUS

LISTEN: How will the new government affect foreigners’ lives in Sweden?

   In this episode we discuss how the incoming right-wing government has
   said it plans to govern Sweden for the next four years.
   Published: 15 October 2022 09:55 CEST
   LISTEN: How will the new government affect foreigners' lives in Sweden?

   In the latest episode of our Sweden in Focus podcast, host Paul
   O’Mahony is joined by regular panelists Becky Waterton, Richard Orange
   and James Savage.

   After weeks of deliberation the Moderate Party leader Ulf Kristersson
   told the parliamentary speaker on Friday he was finally ready to form a
   new government. Assuming he survives a vote in the Riksdag on Monday,
   Kristersson is expected to become prime minster next week and will
   start work assembling a government. We discuss what we know so far
   about the make-up of the next government and how it plans to govern
   Sweden.

   You can listen to the episode HERE. Please leave a rating or review
   wherever you listen to the podcast as it helps ensure that more people
   discover it.

   READ ALSO:
     * How does Sweden’s new government want to change migration policy?
     * Key points – How will Sweden’s new coalition deal affect
       foreigners?

   Don’t forget to hit the follow button (or + sign) on Apple or tap the
   notification bell on Spotify to ensure you get a reminder whenever we
   publish a new episode.

   SURVEY: Share your feedback on Sweden in Focus


Related Topics

   SWEDEN IN FOCUSPODCAST

   (BUTTON) SHOW COMMENTS

Member comments

   Log in here to leave a comment.
   Become a Member to leave a comment.

   Can you beat the Sweden in Focus panel in our 2022 news quiz?
   SWEDEN IN FOCUS
   Can you beat the Sweden in Focus panel in our 2022 news quiz?
   LISTEN: Swedish news quiz 2022 - How well do you remember the year?
   SWEDEN IN FOCUS
   LISTEN: Swedish news quiz 2022 – How well do you remember the year?

SWEDEN IN FOCUS

Can you beat the Sweden in Focus panel in our 2022 news quiz?

   In this week's Sweden in Focus podcast Paul O'Mahony set the panel a
   set of 12 fiendish questions on the year's events. Can you beat The
   Local's team?
   Published: 28 December 2022 16:05 CET
   Can you beat the Sweden in Focus panel in our 2022 news quiz?

   Paul did not hold back, putting together questions that tested the
   recall and background knowledge even of Swedish news veterans like
   James and Richard.

   You can subscribe to the podcast and listen to us fumble after the
   correct answers by pressing this link here.


   But first, see how you manage on your own!

   IFRAME: https://www.riddle.com/embed/a/466674?

Can you beat the Sweden in Focus team in our end of year quiz?

   There was the Ukraine invasion, the end of 200 years of Swedish
   neutrality and an election that brought in a new government. Do you
   know as much about news in Sweden in 2022 as the Sweden in Focus panel
   James Savage, Becky Waterton and Richard Orange?

Hurricane force winds were recorded off the coast of Blekinge in southern
Sweden when a storm rolled in from Denmark at the end of January. What was
the storm called?

A Swedish Bishop was defrocked in February after it emerged that he’d been
having an extramarital affair for many years. What diocese was he serving in
at the time?

Cornelia Jacobs won Melodifestival with her song Hold me Closer, which
qualified her to represent Sweden in the Eurovision Song Contest? How many
people watched the Melodifestival final according to official statistics?



Nyamko Sabuni resigned as Liberal Party leader in April after the party
slumped to just 2 percent in the opinion polls and she was replaced by Johan
Pehrson. Sabuni had been around for a long time in Swedish politics and was a
minister in the centre-right Alliance governments that ruled Sweden from 2006
to 2014. What was her role in the first Fredrik Reinfeldt governments from
2006 to 2010?



In May before Sweden had formally decided to apply for NATO membership, it
signed a security deal with the UK and the then British prime minister. Who
was that prime minister?



Sweden’s Central Bank, the Riksbank, raised interest rates by 50 points to
0.75 percent In June, it was the biggest one day hike in 22 years. The
Riksbank is the world’s oldest Central Bank. When was it founded?



Swedish American pole vaulter Armand Duplantis set a new world record in
July, when he cleared the bar at 6.21 metres at the World Athletics
Championships in Oregon. He’s often referred to by his nickname, what is his
nickname?

A report by the research company Acta Publica, released towards the end of
August, showed that 289 candidates for Swedish county municipal and
parliamentary elections had at some point expressed racist or neo-Nazi views.
Obviously  the far-right Sweden Democrats accounted for many of those. Which
party had none?

Which three parties formed a minority coalition to govern Uppsala from 2022
to 2026?

The Swedish geneticist Svante Pääbo won the Nobel Prize in medicine for his
work sequencing the genome of Neanderthal man. Incredibly, this was his
family’s second Nobel Prize, after his father also won the Nobel Prize for
Medicine in 1982. What was his name?

In November, Sweden’s new Justice Minister Gunner Strömmer, said that
officials were preparing a new bill to finally scrapped the country’s widely
ridiculed ban on spontaneous dancing in bars and restaurants without a
permit. My question to you is this since when has Sweden required a licence
to dance?

Every year the Swedish Retail Institute unveils its picture for Sweden’s
Christmas gift of the year. What was it this year?

What was the gift of the year in 2009?

Congratulations! You have kept up with the news more than anyone could
expect! You seem like the kind of person who would enjoy a discounted
membership offer for The Local.

Oh dear! You need a subscription to The Local. Here’s a discounted membership
offer.

This was a ridiculously hard quiz, so you clearly keep up with the news in
Sweden. You seem like the sort of person who would appreciate a discounted
membership for The Local.

Congratulations! You did better than Richard did in the same quiz in the
Sweden in Focus podcast and may even have beaten Becky Waterton and James
Savage, who each, got only one (or maybe two) questions wrong. You deserve a
discounted membership to The Local.

   Quiz Maker – powered by Riddle


    The Local [email protected] @thelocalsweden

   SHOW COMMENTS (BUTTON) Read this article

   LISTEN: Migration agency delays, far-right meddling, and Sweden's
   Christmas traditions explained
   SWEDEN IN FOCUS
   LISTEN: Migration agency delays, far-right meddling, and Sweden’s
   Christmas traditions explained
   The Ambassadors: ‘I can feel how the air in Sweden opens up your lungs'
   SWEDEN IN FOCUS
   The Ambassadors: ‘I can feel how the air in Sweden opens up your lungs’

   Url copied to clipboard!
   (BUTTON)

   The Local Europe AB
   Vasagatan 10
   111 20 Stockholm
   Sweden
     * About us
     * Contact us
     * Become a member
     * My Account
     * Newsletters options

     * Advertise with us
     * Post a job ad

     * Terms of use
     * Privacy policy
     * Cookie Settings

   (BUTTON) Cookie Settings
   App store App store

   modal logo Please whitelist us to continue reading.

   So this website can function correctly please whitelist The Local with
   your adblocker, antivirus software or browser add on.

   Please visit the help centre for more information
