     * KidsHealth /
     * Parents /
     * How Can I Teach Kids to Be Smart About Strangers?

How Can I Teach Kids to Be Smart About Strangers?

   Reviewed by: Elana Pearl Ben-Joseph, MD
--
     * Print

   When I'm out with my young children, friendly strangers often approach
   us to smile and say hello. Although I'd like my kids to be polite, I
   also want to teach them not to talk to strangers. How can I avoid
   sending mixed messages?
   – Suzanne

   "Don't talk to strangers" has been the rule for many parents for
   generations. But sometimes it's a good idea for kids to talk to
   strangers. Who else will they turn to if they're lost and need help?

   So, instead of making a rule, it's better to teach kids when it's
   appropriate to talk to strangers and when it is not. When your kids are
   out with you, it's fine to let them say hello and talk to new
   people. You are watching the situation and will protect them.

   But if your child is alone and approached by a stranger, that's a
   different story. Tell your kids that if a stranger ever approaches and
   offers a ride or treats (like candy or toys) or asks for help with a
   task (like helping find a lost dog), they should step away, yell "No!"
   and leave the area immediately. Your child should tell you or another
   trusted adult (like a teacher or childcare worker) what happened. The
   same goes if anyone — whether a stranger, family member, or friend —
   asks your child to keep a secret, tries to touch your child's private
   area, or asks your child to touch theirs.

   Most kids are likely to be wary of strangers who are mean-looking or
   appear scary in some way. But most child molesters and abductors are
   regular-looking people, and many go out of their way to look friendly,
--
   they need to walk away immediately.

   So, what happens if your kids are alone and need to approach a stranger
   for help? First, they should try to find a person in uniform, like a
   police officer, security guard, or store employee. If there are no
--
   they should approach someone else.

   It's not possible to protect kids from strangers at all times. But it
   is possible to teach them about appropriate behaviors and what to do if
   somebody crosses the line. Keeping these tips in mind can help your
--
   IFRAME: /content/kidshealth/us/misc/inline_ad.html

   /content/kidshealth/misc/medicalcodes/parents/articles/stranger-smarts

     * About Us
