Pastoral Care of Migrants, Refugees, & Travelers

Welcoming the Stranger Among Us: Unity in Diversity

     * @USCulturalDiver

Welcoming the Stranger Among Us: Unity in Diversity

     * Home
--
    1. Home
    2. Pastoral Care of Migrants, Refugees, & Travelers
    3. Welcoming the Stranger Among Us: Unity in Diversity

Issued by NCCB/USCC, November 15, 2000
--
   solidarity'" (no. 7). Such an encounter, so central to all our Jubilee
   Year activities, leads to a daily vision of the risen Lord, present and
   active in the world, especially in the poor, in the stranger, and in
   the migrant and refugee. These immigrants, new to our shores, call us
   out of our unawareness to a conversion of mind and heart through which
--

   "For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me
   drink, a stranger and you welcomed me." (Mt 25:35)

   On June 2, 2000, the Jubilee Day for Migrants and Refugees, Pope John
--
   an alien; you well know how it feels to be an alien, since you were
   once aliens yourselves in the land of Egypt" (Ex 23:9). "You shall
   treat the stranger who resides with you no differently than the natives
   born among you, have the same love for him as for yourself; for you too
   were once strangers in the land of Egypt" (Lv 19:33-34). The Torah made
   special provisions for immigrants with the reminder that "you too were
   once slaves in Egypt" (Dt 16:9-12): "At the end of every third year you
--
   land of Egypt" (Dt 10:17-19). Jesus echoes this tradition when he
   proclaims prophetically, "For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was
   thirsty and you gave me drink, a stranger and you welcomed me" (Mt
   25:35).

--
   archetype of every refugee family." Pope Pius XII recalls a long
   tradition of papal solicitude for immigrants and refugees, noting the
   hospitality to strangers and refugees traditionally provided by the
   Holy See and recalling the words of the Fourth Lateran Council of 1215:
   "We find in most countries, cities and dioceses people of diverse
--

   Forgetful of Our Heritage
   Perhaps the greatest obstacle to welcoming the stranger is that many
   Americans have forgotten their immigrant past. "Nativism" assumes that
   there is just one image of a "real American" and that immigrants either
--
   As Catholics we are called to take concrete measures to overcome the
   misunderstanding, ignorance, competition, and fear that stand in the
   way of genuinely welcoming the stranger in our midst and enjoying the
   communion that is our destiny as Children of God. We commit ourselves,
   accordingly, to working to strengthen understanding among the many
--
   for individuals and groups and as part of a broader evangelization that
   proclaims God's care for all his children and the Church's special
   responsibility for the poor, the persecuted, and the stranger.
   The call to solidarity is also a call to promote the effective
   recognition of the rights of immigrants and to overcome all
--
   abundantly recounted in the Gospels, Epistles, and Acts of the
   Apostles, leads to a daily vision of the Lord present and active in the
   world, especially in the poor, in the stranger, and in the migrant and
   refugee. Those most in need draw the members of the Church out of their
   unawareness to a conversion of heart through which they are able to
--


   The pastoral statement Welcoming the Stranger Among Us: Unity in
   Diversity was developed by the National Conference of Catholic Bishops'
   Committee on Migration. It was approved by the full body of bishops at
