   Courtesy of Jamie Kenney

11 Things Well-Meaning Strangers Need To Stop Doing When It Comes To Other
People's Kids

--
   the planning in the world doesn't keep me from being tested literally
   every single week, not by the chore, not by my children, but by
   well-meaning strangers who consistently manage to throw off our groove.
   It's not just the grocery store, either: everywhere, sweet people, who
   only want to help, just need to, well, not. There are so many things
   well-meaning strangers need to stop when it comes to kids.

   People have a lot of feels when it comes to kids and, believe me, I get
--
   would be, "I get it." I'm a natural extrovert, I adore children, and I
   feel like I have a good rapport with most kids I encounter. I know the
   instincts of well-meaning strangers because, more often than not, they
   are my instincts, too. However, there are times we must fight our
   natural inclinations in order to accommodate other people's feelings
   and plans, because the road to "parent hell" is paved with good
   intentions from kind strangers.

   You've probably heard the famous Wendy Mass quote (or more likely, seen
--
   triggers, and everything in between is a full-time job in and of
   itself, without all the other crap one has to deal with as an adult
   with. You waltzing into my life, stranger, with your own aims and
   agendas (and even if you think they are compatible with mine) is likely
   to cause issues and screw up a good chunk of my day (or at least my
--

   Think about it this way: if you were really emotional, would a very
   tall stranger approaching you, asking what was wrong and encouraging
   you not to cry, make you feel better? No. It would probably freak you
   out and you're an adult with the ability to process social interactions
--
   wouldn't. Like, ever.

   For one, I don't want my kid to be under the impression that strangers
   are allowed to touch them, because they're not. For another, my kid
   doesn't exist to feed your need to love something. My kid doesn't exist
--

   It's sweet that you pay my kid a compliment and, yeah, I think she's
   very pretty, too. However, when strangers constantly comment on her
   looks (and just her looks) that's sending a few messages I'd rather she
   not receive:
--
   anymore. It's a bummer.

   This is a general plea to strangers: pay attention to how you're
   engaging little kids. All the random little comments they get from
   individual strangers have a cumulative effect.

Discipline Someone's Kid Without Expressed Permission
--
   sound, um, "untoward."

   Insisting that there is a level of intimacy between two strangers that
   does not actually exist because the adult in question wants to create a
   pleasant interaction, is just uncalled for and sets some potentially
   dangerous precedents for a child who is probably just working of a
   natural (and healthy) dose of stranger-danger.

Keep Trying To Win A Kid Over When It Just Isn't Happening
