   Learn more about Teams

Why is the show called "Stranger Things" instead of "Strange Things"?
[closed]

--
   speaker, I've been wondering about it for a while. haha

   I've never seen a sentence using the word Stranger to define things. I
   did see it to define a person you do not know, but not for things.

   So, my question is: In this title, "Stranger Things", does it mean that
   these things that are happening, are more strange than the "normal"
   strange? (Does it make sense at all?)
--
   6
     * 1
       The use is stranger as a comparative. There are strange things, and
       then there are stranger things.
       – Davo
       Nov 3, 2017 at 19:49
     * "Stranger than fiction" is a common phrase.
       – Xanne
       Nov 3, 2017 at 19:53
--
       Why is something only the show creators would know; captaingabbeh
       has provided that answer. There is also a play on words; the saying
       stranger things have happened refers to events, whereas the show
       includes stranger things which are very much physical.
       – choster
       Nov 3, 2017 at 19:53
     * Because they wanted the show to be stranger than all the other
       shows on TV.
       – Hot Licks
       Nov 3, 2017 at 20:47
     * 1
       Another possible reason: "stranger" is of course also a noun
       referring to an unknown person, so they might have used that to
       subtly suggest the show being about "strangers", like Eleven
       – Jasmijn
       Nov 3, 2017 at 22:21
--
   Stephen King book called "Needful Things"

   https://www.thedailybeast.com/inside-stranger-things-the-duffer-bros-on
   -how-they-made-the-tv-hit-of-the-summer

   (Look for the question "I’m not sure if you guys have ever talked about
   this before, but how did you settle on the title Stranger Things? I
   know originally it was Montauk.")

   I actually thought it was a play on the English saying "Stranger things
   have happened", which is something you would say if you were discussing
   an event that was possible but unlikely. For example, if my friend and
   I are talking about the weather and my friend suggests it will snow in
   August, I might say something like "Well, I guess stranger things have
   happened" to show I don't really think it's going to happen.
   Share
