   Why Bad Looks Good

4 Signs That a Stranger Poses Danger

Not paranoia, but preparedness. How to separate the helpful from the harmful.
--
   Source: Milles Studio/Shutterstock

   Strangers often turn into friends, co-workers, or even life partners.
   We are motivated to view others positively, because of this potential
   for building productive relationships. Yet sensing danger should
   curtail your initial level of courtesy.

   Strangers Are Statistically Safe

   As we prepare to head into April, which is Sexual Assault Awareness
   Month, we begin with the observation that most strangers are safe — or
   at least harmless. As strange as it sounds to put it that way,
   statistically speaking, it is true. Yet it is precisely because the
--

   To put the danger into perspective, I have spent the last 20-plus years
   prosecuting the exceptions to the harmless stranger rule. And those
   exceptions will keep myself and my colleagues in the District
   Attorney's Office employed for the rest of our careers. In other words,
   the level of risk from stranger danger is statistically low, but
   significantly serious.

--
   Context Counts

   Stranger danger includes both risk of criminal behavior and of sexual
   harassment — which even if it does not include physical contact, can
   have significant adverse consequences.

   Research indicates that stranger harassment results in more negative
   outcomes than workplace harassment, with incidents involving physical
   contact causing the most negative reactions.[1] It further reveals that
--
   permissive social norms.[2]

   Yet not all strangers display harassing behavior. Some are even more
   dangerous, charming, and disarming by clothing themselves in courtesy.
   These wolves in sheep's clothing prey on victims by capitalizing on
--
   We all want to live by the biblical and social mandate, “Do unto
   others.” Following the Golden Rule, we would love to help everyone in
   all situations. But beware of the seemingly able-bodied stranger who
   approaches you requesting assistance, particularly in an environment
   with lots of available options, such as train stations and airports.
--
   information, resulting in elevated status attributed to the helper.[4]

   Yet a stranger's true intentions are often revealed in reaction to your
   response. While most strangers are gracious whether you accept their
   help or not, a further offer becomes inappropriate after you have
   declined assistance.

   It is appropriate to accept a stranger's offer to lift your heavy
   briefcase into the overhead compartment on a crowded airplane. It is
   inappropriate to have a stranger approach you outside your neighborhood
   market and insist on carrying your groceries to your car — particularly
   after you have said “no.” Be wary of any sentence that begins with “I
--
   The Open Nook

   When you meet friendly strangers, your level of disclosure will depend
   on your level of comfort. Remember that it is not rude to keep personal
   details to yourself. Along these lines, beware the open book (or the
--
   create a sense of obligation on your part to reciprocate. Don't fall
   for it. There is no rule of reciprocity that requires you to share
   private details with a stranger, regardless of how much they share with
   you.

--

   We remind our children to mind their manners, and we try to do the
   same. Yet with a stranger who makes you uncomfortable, don't. If you
   realize you have allowed someone who makes you uncomfortable to get a
   foot in the door, close it.
--
   References

   [1] Megan K. McCarty, Nicole E. Iannone, and Janice R. Kelly, ”Stranger
   Danger: The Role of Perpetrator and Context in Moderating Reactions to
   Sexual Harassment,” Sexuality & Culture Vol. 18 (2014): 739-758.

   [2] McCarty et al.,”Stranger Danger: The Role of Perpetrator and
   Context in Moderating Reactions to Sexual Harassment,” 751 (citing
   Pryor et al., 1993, 1995).
