   #alternate How to Ask a Stranger For Help

   (BUTTON)
--
   Today’s Paper

   Magazine|How to Ask a Stranger For Help
   https://www.nytimes.com/2022/07/05/magazine/how-to-ask-a-stranger-for-h
   elp.html
     * (BUTTON) Give this articleGive this articleGive this article
--
   Tip

How to Ask a Stranger For Help

   It might feel socially risky, but ask anyway. Keep your request simple
--
   organizational behavior at Cornell University. For research purposes,
   she and colleagues have sent help-seekers out into cities all over the
   world to request things from 15,000 strangers. Appealing for assistance
   “feels socially risky,” Bohns says. Ask anyway. When asked for help,
   most people are happy to comply. “We are a social species,” Bohns says.
--
   outright. Don’t do that. Ask directly for what you need, and if someone
   says no, move on and ask another person. Whether you’re approaching a
   stranger or a friend, it’s always more effective to ask for help in
   person. “Be face to face,” Bohns says. “It’s more emotional.”

   Assume the stranger will help you. In one study, Bohns and a colleague
   had undergraduates approach people they didn’t know and say, “Can I use
   your cellphone to make a call?” Before starting, the undergrads had to
   predict how many people they would have to ask to get three to agree;
   they overestimated by more than 60 percent. It turned out that about
   half the strangers shared their phone. The help-seeker tends to believe
   people will weigh the time and financial costs associated with offering
   assistance, but it turns out saying no is awkward, and most people
   would rather just say yes, even when the request feels ethically
   questionable. In another study, Bohns had people ask strangers to write
   the word “pickle” in a library book. Many were reluctant and
   uncomfortable, but ultimately some 65 percent of them vandalized the
   book anyway.

   Try not to seek help from strangers in a location where others are
   simultaneously approaching them with requests. The only place that
   Bohns found where strangers mostly refused to help was a busy street in
   Toronto frequented by canvassers and petitioners. People steel
   themselves in those kinds of scenarios. “It’s easier to say no when you
