   #Cleveland.com

   Skip to Article

   (BUTTON) Set weather
   (BUTTON) Back To Main Menu (BUTTON) Close
   Customize Your Weather
   Set Your Location:
   Enter City and State or Zip Code
   ____________________ (BUTTON) Submit
   cleveland’s Logo cleveland’s Logo
   (BUTTON) Subscribe
   News never stops. Neither do we. Support cleveland.com

    1. Police Blotter

Stranger with gun takes smoke break; party band rocks neighbors: Russell
Township Police Blotter

     * Updated: Oct. 14, 2022, 6:28 p.m.|
     * Published: Oct. 14, 2022, 3:40 p.m.

   Russell Township Police car

   Russell Township police car.
   (BUTTON) facebook
   (BUTTON) twitter
   (BUTTON)
   NEW!
   (BUTTON)
   By
     * Joan Rusek, special to cleveland.com

   RUSSELL TOWNSHIIP, Ohio

   Suspicious: Stillwater Drive

   Police responded at 10 a.m. Sept. 30 after a resident found an unknown,
   bearded man standing at the end of the resident’s driveway with a gun
   on his hip.

   When the resident asked the man why he was there, the man said he was
   smoking a cigarette. While an officer was en route, the man left in an
   unknown direction.

   Disturbance: Braeburn Lane

   Loud music playing at 9:26 p.m. Sept. 24 kept children from sleeping in
   their home and prompted a complaint.

   An officer responded to the scene and could hear and feel the
   vibrations from the loud bass music coming from a County Line Road
   wedding reception. The hosts agreed with the officer to turn it down
   and said the reception would be over in one hour.

   Disturbance: Hillbrook Drive

   An intoxicated man made a belligerent move toward another party guest
   at 11:30 p.m. Oct. 1, then walked away. Police were called and officers
   found the subject, who then boarded a shuttle bus and was transported
   to his hotel.

   Assistance: Hillbrook Drive

   Police and EMS responded to a report of a woman passed out in a parked
   vehicle at 8:21 a.m. Sept. 28. Upon arrival. they woke her. She said
   she was fine and was taking a nap in between her delivery assignments.

   Assistance: Northwood Road

   Residents asked for and received advice Oct. 3 on what to do about
   receiving mail that is not theirs.

   Suspicious vehicle: Galloway Trail

   After receiving a complaint about a vehicle driving slowly at 11:36
   p.m. Oct. 2, an officer found it and questioned the driver.

   The woman resides in the neighborhood and said she was just driving
   around the block while talking on her phone.

   Read more from the Chagrin Solon Sun.

   If you purchase a product or register for an account through one of the
   links on our site, we may receive compensation.

Disclaimer

   Advance Local logo

   Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User
   Agreement, Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement, and Your California
   Privacy Rights (User Agreement updated 1/1/21. Privacy Policy and
   Cookie Statement updated 7/1/2022).

   Cookie Settings

   © 2022 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us).
   The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed,
   transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written
   permission of Advance Local.

   Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to
   this site.

   Ad Choices Ad Choices
