   #alternate alternate

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5JHPTP

   Skip to main content

   USCCB
   ____________________________________________________________
   Go

Menu: Top Buttons

     * Help Now
     * Readings
     * Search

Menu: Top

     * Daily Readings
     * Daily Readings Calendar
     * Find a Parish
     * Report Abuse

Main navigation

     * Daily Readings
     * About USCCB
          + Our Role & Mission
          + Strategic Plan
          + Leadership
          + Bishops and Dioceses
          + Offices & Committees
          + Plenary Assemblies
          + Financial Reporting
          + Careers
          + Events
          + Contact
     * Prayer & Worship
          + Daily Readings Calendar
          + Prayer
          + Search Mass Times
          + The Mass
          + Sacraments
          + Liturgy of the Hours
          + Liturgical Year & Calendar
          + Music & Art
     * Bible
          + Understanding the Bible
          + Books of the Bible
          + Approved Translations
          + Bible FAQ
          + Study Materials
          + The Bible in Liturgy
          + Bible Permissions
     * Issues & Action
          + Topics
               o Catholic Safeguards
          + Act Now
               o Help Now
               o Take Action
               o Contact Public Officials
               o Meetings & Events
               o Get Connected
               o Pray
     * News
          + Newsroom
          + Catholic News Service
          + Public Affairs
          + Catholic Current Podcasts
     * Resources
          + Resource Library
          + Catechism of the Catholic Church
          + Get Connected
          + Subscribe
          + Movie Reviews
          + Events Calendar
          + Parish Resources

   United States Conference of Catholic Bishops
   ____________________________________________________________
   Go

Pastoral Care of Migrants, Refugees, & Travelers

Welcoming the Stranger Among Us: Unity in Diversity

     * @USCulturalDiver

Welcoming the Stranger Among Us: Unity in Diversity

     * Home
     * About
          + Who We Are
     * Resources
          + Demographics
          + Catholic Organizations
          + Other Resources
     * Initiatives
          + African National Eucharistic Congress (ANEC)
     * Ministries
          + People on the Move
          + Stella Maris
          + Ethnic Ministries
     * News & Events
     * Contact

Breadcrumb

    1. Home
    2. Pastoral Care of Migrants, Refugees, & Travelers
    3. Welcoming the Stranger Among Us: Unity in Diversity

Issued by NCCB/USCC, November 15, 2000

   Copyright © 2000, United States Catholic Conference, Inc. All rights
   reserved.


   ORDER COPIES: English | Spanish



Contents


     * Summary

     * Introduction: An Immigrant Church, Then and Now
       The Immigrant Church Today
       Who Are the New Immigrants?
       The Migration for Survival
          + Undocumented Immigrants
       Immigrant Families and Their Communities
       The New Immigration and the Church

     * The Calling of the Church
       A Tradition of Welcome and Pastoral Concern

     * A Call to Conversion
       Forgetful of Our Heritage
       Competition for Resources
       Cultural Fears
       Institutional Obstacles

     * A Call to Communion
       Coming to Understand Others as the First Form of Hospitality
       Intercultural Communication
       Languages for Ministry
       Ministry in a Multicultural Church
          + National or Regional Level
          + Diocesan Level
          + Parish Level
          + The Special Needs of Youth

     * The Call to Solidarity

     * Conclusion: A Call to a New Evangelization

     * Notes

Summary

   On June 2, 2000, the Jubilee Day for Migrants and Refugees, Pope John
   Paul II celebrated the Eucharist in St. Peter's Square for over 50,000
   migrants, refugees, people on the move, and their chaplains from all
   over the world. The Eucharist drew that great diversity of people into
   unity in the communion of Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, realizing a
   Jubilee Year hope for the Church: "to gather into one the dispersed
   children of God," "to sum up all things in Christ, in heaven and on
   earth" (Jn 11:52; Eph 1:10).
   Unity in diversity is the vision that we bishops, as pastors of the
   Church in the United States, offer to our people as they welcome the
   new immigrants and refugees who come to our shores. In the past
   thirty-five years the number and variety of immigrants coming to the
   United States have provided a great challenge for us as pastors.
   Previous immigrants had come predominantly from Europe or as slaves
   from Africa, but many of the new immigrants come from Latin America and
   the Caribbean, Asia and the Pacific Islands, the Middle East, Africa,
   Eastern Europe, and the former Soviet Union and Yugoslavia. Though a
   good number come as skilled workers and professionals, the greater
   number come as refugees and immigrants on the edge of survival; large
   numbers join families already here; others arrive without proper
   documents. Many were forced to leave their homeland because of a
   well-founded fear of persecution. This diversity of ethnicity,
   education, and social class challenges us as pastors to welcome these
   new immigrants and help them join our communities in ways that are
   respectful of their cultures and in ways that mutually enrich the
   immigrants and the receiving Church.
   To pursue this vision of unity in diversity, we have chosen the way
   marked out by Pope John Paul II as he stood beneath the figure of Our
   Lady of Guadalupe in Mexico City on January 22, 1999, and announced the
   summary of Ecclesia in America: namely, the call to conversion,
   communion, and solidarity.
   The presence of so many people of so many different cultures and
   religions in so many different parts of the United States has
   challenged us as a Church to a profound conversion so that we can
   become truly a sacrament of unity. We reject the anti-immigrant stance
   that has become popular in different parts of our country, and the
   nativism, ethnocentricity, and racism that continue to reassert
   themselves in our communities. We are challenged to get beyond ethnic
   communities living side by side within our own parishes without any
   connection with each other. We are challenged to become an evangelizing
   Church open to interreligious dialogue and willing to proclaim the
   Gospel to those who wish to hear it. The new immigrants call most of us
   back to our ancestral heritage as descendants of immigrants and to our
   baptismal heritage as members of the body of Christ."For in one Spirit
   we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, slaves or
   free persons, and we are all given to drink of one Spirit" (1 Cor
   12:13).
   The call to communion goes out to all members of the Church—bishops,
   priests, deacons, religious, lay leaders, and parishioners—to prepare
   themselves to receive the newcomers with a genuine spirit of welcome.
   Simple, grace-filled kindness and concern on the part of all
   parishioners to newcomers are the first steps. This can be accompanied
   by language and culture study as well as constant and patient efforts
   at intercultural communication. The integration of incoming groups is
   complex because of multiple Mass schedules and lack of personnel or
   resources, but if the receiving parish staffs and parishioners are open
   to the newcomers and provide a bridge to join cultures to one another,
   the newcomers themselves will provide the leadership and show the way
   to a healthy integration. Both on parish and diocesan levels, the
   presence of brothers and sisters from different cultures should be
   celebrated as a gift to the Church through well-prepared liturgies, lay
   leadership development programs inclusive of all, the appointment of
   prepared leaders of immigrant communities to parish and diocesan
   positions, and special efforts to help youth find their way as they
   experience themselves often torn between two cultures.
   One successful model of unity in diversity was Encuentro 2000: Many
   Faces in God's House, the National Conference of Catholic Bishops'
   celebration for the Jubilee Year. In the materials prior to the
   celebration, Encuentro 2000 offered a discussion method called the
   "mutual invitation process," which maximizes intercultural
   participation. In the celebration itself, Encuentro 2000 was an
   experience of the exuberance and vitality, the profound faith and
   devotional life of the participants. Encuentro 2000 also demonstrated
   that communion in a multicultural Church is a true possibility for the
   new millennium.
   The call to solidarity can be summed up in Pope John Paul II's Message
   for World Migration Day 2000: "The Church hears the suffering cry of
   all who are uprooted from their own land, of families forcefully
   separated, of those who, in the rapid changes of our day, are unable to
   find a stable home anywhere. She senses the anguish of those without
   rights, without any security, at the mercy of every kind of
   exploitation, and she supports them in their unhappiness" (no. 6). We
   bishops commit ourselves and all the members of our church communities
   to continue the work of advocacy for laws that respect the human rights
   of immigrants and preserve the unity of the immigrant family. We
   encourage the extension of social services, citizenship classes,
   community organizing efforts that secure improved housing conditions,
   decent wages, better medical attention, and appropriate educational
   opportunities for immigrants and refugees. We advocate reform of the
   1996 immigration laws that have undermined some basic human rights for
   immigrants. We join with others of good will in a call for legalization
   opportunities for the maximum number of undocumented persons,
   particularly those who have built equities and otherwise contributed to
   their communities.
   In Ecclesia in America, Pope John Paul II calls for a "new
   evangelization" centered on the person of Jesus Christ. "‘The encounter
   with the living Jesus Christ' is ‘the path to conversion, communion and
   solidarity'" (no. 7). Such an encounter, so central to all our Jubilee
   Year activities, leads to a daily vision of the risen Lord, present and
   active in the world, especially in the poor, in the stranger, and in
   the migrant and refugee. These immigrants, new to our shores, call us
   out of our unawareness to a conversion of mind and heart through which
   we are able to offer a genuine and suitable welcome, to share together
   as brothers and sisters at the same table, and to work side by side to
   improve the quality of life for society's marginalized members. In so
   doing, we work to bring all the children of God into a fuller
   communion,"the communion willed by God, begun in time and destined for
   completion in the fullness of the Kingdom" (Ecclesia in America, no.
   33).

Introduction: An Immigrant Church, Then and Now

   "For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me
   drink, a stranger and you welcomed me." (Mt 25:35)

   On June 2, 2000, the Jubilee Day for Migrants and Refugees, Pope John
   Paul II looked out over a sunlit crowd of pilgrims gathered in St.
   Peter's Square from all nations: migrants, refugees, seafarers,
   Gypsies,^1 foreign students, circus and carnival workers, airport
   workers, truckers, all varieties of people on the move with their
   bishop promoters, their chaplains and spiritual directors. The pope
   celebrated the Eucharist, which drew that great diversity of people
   into unity in the communion of Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. He
   reminded them that in the Church they are meant to experience this
   trinitarian communion. In the Church their diversity is to be grounded
   in a profound unity. Through the members of the Church, solitary
   migrations are to end in the embrace of solidarity.

   This jubilee vision of Pope John Paul II is the vision guiding us, the
   bishops of the United States, as we respond to the new immigrants who
   have recently come to our shores.

    Twenty years ago in Beyond the Melting Pot: Cultural Pluralism in the
   United States, we the bishops of the United States noted that cultural
   pluralism was the common heritage of all Americans. As the new
   millennium unfolds, the "new immigration" from all the continents of
   the world calls attention to the reality of the United States as
   largely a "nation of immigrants" and to the diversity of national and
   ethnic origins of all people of this country. In this new context, the
   Catholic community is rapidly re-encountering itself as an "immigrant
   Church," a witness at once to the diversity of people who make up our
   world and to our unity in one humanity, destined to enjoy the fullness
   of God's blessings in Jesus Christ. This unity in diversity was
   celebrated at Encuentro 2000, sponsored as the National Conference of
   Catholic Bishops' principal jubilee celebration, highlighting "many
   faces in God's house."

   A century ago, the Church responded generously to the needs of
   immigrants: building parishes and schools, establishing a vast array of
   charitable institutions, evangelizing newcomers, and being evangelized
   in turn by immigrant Catholics with distinctive traditions of worship
   and often a deep spirituality of their own. Members of the Eastern
   Catholic Churches arrived during the same period. They were not always
   understood by their fellow Catholics, although they were received and
   did develop as members of the Church in America. Despite the attacks of
   "nativists" and the criticisms made by English-speaking Catholics,
   national parishes were established that provided a safe haven where
   newcomers were able to pray and hear the word of God in their own
   languages, begin the education of their children in the language of the
   home, and so adapt to their new society with the security of community
   and faith. The Church embraced these immigrants, supporting them in
   their striving to build a better life and encouraging the efforts of
   many of them to help build a labor movement that could represent them
   in that struggle. And then, as now—despite the predictions of
   critics—immigrants and their children quickly became vital participants
   in American society, acquiring proficiency in English by the second and
   third generations, rising in the educational system, and contributing
   in thousands of ways to the economic growth and social, political, and
   spiritual life of the country.


   Who Are the New Immigrants?
   The "new" immigration to the United States stems from global
   changes—both economic and political—over the past forty years and from
   legal changes starting with the 1965 Immigration Act. The latter
   abolished the quota system that had systematically favored immigrants
   from Western Europe and had largely cut off immigration from Asia,
   Africa, and the Middle East after 1920. Meanwhile war, economic
   distress, the desire to be reunited with families, and the new legal
   opportunities since the 1960s have prompted a diverse immigration from
   Latin America and the Caribbean, Asia and the Pacific Islands, the
   Middle East, Africa, Eastern Europe, and the former Soviet Union and
   Yugoslavia.


   While the new immigrants include many unskilled workers who perform
   difficult and menial tasks as in the past, the new immigrants also
   include many skilled workers, recruited to fill specialized positions
   as nurses, computer professionals, and scientists. The United States is
   thus beneficiary of the years of education, training, and experience
   that come with these new workers. While we welcome all the new
   immigrants and recognize that our Church, like the United States as a
   whole, has come to depend upon the many talents and profound energy of
   newcomers, we must also remind our government that the emigration of
   talented and trained individuals from the poorer countries represents a
   profound loss to those countries. And we remind heads of government
   around the world that emigration of all kinds—but especially that of
   those fleeing war and persecution, famine and economic distress—is a
   sign of the failure of the whole international community to guarantee
   the security and welfare of all people in their homelands.

   The ultimate resolution of the problems associated with forced
   migration and illegal immigration lies in changing the conditions that
   drive persons from their countries of origin. Accordingly, we urge the
   governments of the world, particularly our own government, to promote a
   just peace in those countries that are at war, to protect human rights
   in those countries that deny them, and to foster the economic
   development of those countries that are unable to provide for their own
   peoples. We also urge the governments of the "receiving" countries to
   welcome these immigrants, to provide for their immediate needs, and to
   enable them to come to self-sufficiency as quickly as possible.


   The Migration for Survival
   We must never forget that many immigrants come to this country in
   desperate circumstances. Some have fled political persecution, war, and
   economic devastation, particularly from Southeast Asia in the 1970s,
   Central America and the Caribbean in the 1980s, and the former
   Yugoslavia, the former Soviet Union, and Africa in the 1990s. Others
   have wagered on finding a better life in this country in the face of
   economic desperation at home. As Pope John Paul II has noted, "In many
   regions of the world today people live in tragic situations of
   instability and uncertainty. It does not come as a surprise that in
   such contexts the poor and the destitute make plans to escape, to seek
   a new land that can offer them bread, dignity and peace. This is the
   migration of the desperate. . . . Unfortunately, the reality they find
   in host nations is frequently a source of further disappointment"
   (Message on World Migration Day 2000, no. 4).


   Some refugees^2 have enjoyed the sanction and support of the U.S.
   government, while others have been denied attention and systematically
   deported, and some have been subjected to humiliating incarceration
   under deplorable conditions. Increasing numbers of refugees from the
   conflicts of the 1980s have seen their status adjusted to that of
   permanent residency; but disparities in treatment, complicated and
   drawn-out asylum procedures, and long waits for service contribute to
   the already difficult process of adjustment that individuals and
   families in flight have to face. Both individual lay people and church
   agencies have worked alongside secular organizations to correct these
   situations and address the sufferings of those caught up in the complex
   and bureaucratic U.S. immigration system whose policies often lead to
   the fragmenting of families, but more needs to be done.

     Undocumented Immigrants
     One reality remains constant in the American experience of
     immigration: the demand of the U.S. economy for unskilled labor—and
     the corresponding entrance of immigrants seeking work—in
     labor-intensive industries such as agriculture, construction, food
     processing, and services. Undocumented immigrants face special
     hardships in such areas. The Immigration and Naturalization Service
     estimates that three to four million undocumented workers hold jobs
     in this country, many of which are poorly paid, insecure, and
     dangerous. They face discrimination in the workplace and on the
     streets, the constant threat of arrest and deportation, and the fear
     that they or their children will be denied medical care, education,
     or job opportunities. Many have lived in the United States for
     years, establishing roots in their communities, building their
     families, paying taxes, and contributing to the economy. If arrested
     and deported, they leave behind children and sometimes spouses who
     are American citizens. While the changes in the law over the last
     several years have enabled many in this situation to adjust their
     status to that of permanent resident, the 1996 immigration
     legislation made this option more difficult for the vast majority.
     Without condoning undocumented migration, the Church supports the
     human rights of all people and offers them pastoral care, education,
     and social services, no matter what the circumstances of entry into
     this country, and it works for the respect of the human dignity of
     all—especially those who find themselves in desperate circumstances.
     We recognize that nations have the right to control their borders.
     We also recognize and strongly assert that all human persons,
     created as they are in the image of God, possess a fundamental
     dignity that gives rise to a more compelling claim to the conditions
     worthy of human life. Accordingly, the Church also advocates
     legalization opportunities for the maximum number of undocumented
     persons, particularly those who have built equities and otherwise
     contributed to their communities.

   Immigrant Families and Their Communities
   The vast majority of the 600,000 to 900,000 immigrants admitted
   annually to this country enter as immediate relatives of U.S. citizens
   or legal permanent residents, a trend that coincides with the Church's
   teaching supporting family reunification. At the same time, the family
   preference system continues to experience considerable backlogs,
   prolonging the separation of families. The 1996 immigration laws have
   torn apart families that have established themselves in the United
   States over many years, sometimes on the basis of minor criminal
   offences duly punished years ago.

   Over a third of the new immigrants have become naturalized citizens,
   and the longer immigrants remain here the more likely they will become
   citizens; but here, too, the Church views with grave concern recent
   legislation^3 that has withdrawn basic benefits from legal residents
   who are not yet citizens and threatened the ability of many
   hard-working immigrants to remain in this country.

   Immigrants experience the tensions of their new situation much more
   than the society around them does. They have settled in a foreign land
   with laws, customs, and a language that they must master sooner or
   later, often at great personal cost. They struggle to build community
   among themselves in hopes of providing the sense of continuity and
   security they need in order to face the new world they have chosen or
   were forced to accept. They do not want to give up all that they value
   in their own ways of life—nor do they want their children to grow up
   without those traditions. Thus, many households carry on, to one degree
   or another, the cultures of immigrant parents, and today, one in five
   Americans enjoys immediate ties to a heritage beyond our borders.

   These realities ensure that few Americans have not encountered recent
   immigrants to this country in their neighborhoods and workplaces. Long
   Beach, California, is home to more Cambodians than Phnom Phen. Los
   Angeles ranks just behind Mexico City and Guadalajara in the number of
   residents of Mexican origin. Chicago at times has had more persons of
   Polish extraction than Warsaw. At the same time, rural towns and small
   cities throughout the country have begun to feel a presence of
   immigrants in their communities not seen since the great wave of
   immigration at the end of the nineteenth century.


   The New Immigration and the Church
   Many of the new immigrants are Catholics. Probably more than 80 percent
   of Hispanic immigrants were raised in the Catholic faith. By some
   estimates, Hispanic Catholics—including the United States' large Puerto
   Rican and Mexican American populations^4—could make up the majority of
   U.S. Catholics within the next twenty years. But other immigrant
   populations also include large numbers of Catholics. Filipinos, who
   represent almost 5 percent of the immigrant population, are
   overwhelmingly Catholic. Some 350,000 of the 1.4 million Vietnamese
   immigrants in this country are Catholic. These Catholics are joined by
   thousands of Eastern Catholics coming from the former Soviet Union, the
   Middle East, and India. A smaller but still significant number of the
   Chinese, Korean, Japanese, Laotian, Sri Lankan, Indonesian, Tongan,
   Samoan, and Asian Indian immigrants are also Catholic. Among the
   increasing numbers of immigrants from Africa, many are Catholics,
   raised in the vibrant Catholic culture of the Church's fastest growing
   region.

   Throughout the country, the liturgy and church decor increasingly
   reflect the cultural gifts of the new immigrants, with their own images
   of Mary and the saints, their songs, and their distinctive celebrations
   taking their place alongside those of older generations of immigrants.
   And immigrant communities provide a growing percentage of the vocations
   to the priesthood and religious life as well as lay leadership at the
   service of the Church in the United States today. The profile provided
   regarding the new immigrants who are Catholic should not minimize the
   Church's overwhelming concern for all new arrivals, regardless of their
   religious tradition or lack of one.



The Calling of the Church


   In this context of opportunity and challenge that is the new
   immigration, we bishops of the United States reaffirm the commitment of
   the Church, in the words of Pope John Paul II, to work "so that every
   person's dignity is respected, the immigrant is welcomed as a brother
   or sister, and all humanity forms a united family which knows how to
   appreciate with discernment the different cultures which comprise it"
   (Message for World Migration Day 2000, no. 5). We call upon all people
   of good will, but Catholics especially, to welcome the newcomers in
   their neighborhoods and schools, in their places of work and worship,
   with heartfelt hospitality, openness, and eagerness both to help and to
   learn from our brothers and sisters, of whatever race, religion,
   ethnicity, or background.

   A Tradition of Welcome and Pastoral Concern
   This call is based on the rich heritage of Scripture and the Church's
   teaching. The patriarchs themselves were nomads. Settled by the hand of
   God in the time of Abraham, they soon migrated to Egypt, where they
   suffered oppression and were delivered once again by God's hand. From
   this experience comes a deep appreciation for the plight of the
   migrant, underlined in the words of Scripture: "You shall not oppress
   an alien; you well know how it feels to be an alien, since you were
   once aliens yourselves in the land of Egypt" (Ex 23:9). "You shall
   treat the stranger who resides with you no differently than the natives
   born among you, have the same love for him as for yourself; for you too
   were once strangers in the land of Egypt" (Lv 19:33-34). The Torah made
   special provisions for immigrants with the reminder that "you too were
   once slaves in Egypt" (Dt 16:9-12): "At the end of every third year you
   shall bring out all the tithes of your produce for that year and
   deposit them in community stores, that the Levite who has no share in
   the heritage with you, and also the alien, the orphan and the widow who
   belong to your community, may come and eat their fill; so that the
   Lord, your God, may bless you in all that you undertake" (Dt 14:28-29).

   Indeed, the experience of exile, oppression, and deliverance to the
   Promised Land is the central act of the drama of salvation for Judaism.
   In honor of God's deliverance of his people, Israel was enjoined to
   show justice towards all: "For the Lord, your God, is the God of gods,
   the Lord of lords, the great God, mighty and awesome, who has no
   favorites, accepts no bribes; who executes justice for the orphan and
   the widow, and befriends the alien, feeding and clothing him. So you
   too must befriend the alien, for you were once aliens yourselves in the
   land of Egypt" (Dt 10:17-19). Jesus echoes this tradition when he
   proclaims prophetically, "For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was
   thirsty and you gave me drink, a stranger and you welcomed me" (Mt
   25:35).

   The Church has remained faithful to this call to care for migrants of
   all kinds and has responded accordingly over the centuries. The
   apostolic constitution Exsul Familia, promulgated by Pope Pius XII in
   1952, takes its name from its evocation of the "émigré Holy Family of
   Nazareth, fleeing into Egypt," to which the pope pointed as "the
   archetype of every refugee family." Pope Pius XII recalls a long
   tradition of papal solicitude for immigrants and refugees, noting the
   hospitality to strangers and refugees traditionally provided by the
   Holy See and recalling the words of the Fourth Lateran Council of 1215:
   "We find in most countries, cities and dioceses people of diverse
   languages who, though bound by one Faith, have varied rites and
   customs. Therefore we strictly enjoin that the Bishops of these cities
   or dioceses provide the proper men, who will celebrate the Liturgical
   Functions according to their rites and languages." The pope cites with
   pride, as one proof of the Church's constant solicitude in this
   respect, the provisions for the establishment of "national parishes" in
   the United States in the nineteenth century to accommodate the
   immigrants of that era.

   The Second Vatican Council likewise called on the national bishops'
   conferences to pay special attention to those who "are not adequately
   cared for by the ordinary pastoral ministry of the parochial clergy or
   are entirely deprived of it," including "the many migrants, exiles and
   refugees," and to devise solutions for them (Christus Dominus, no. 18),
   a call endorsed by Pope Paul VI in approving a revision of church norms
   regarding pastoral care for immigrants. His Instruction on the Pastoral
   Care of People Who Migrate affirmed that "migrating people carry with
   them their own mentality, their own language, their own culture, and
   their own religion. All of these things are parts of a certain
   spiritual heritage of opinions, traditions and culture which will
   perdure outside the homeland. Let it be prized highly everywhere" (no.
   11).

    These words should apply with special force to members of the numerous
   Eastern Catholic Churches, who preserve ancient traditions of worship
   and practice reaching back to the days of the apostles. In full
   communion with the Catholic Church, they are the bearers of the
   authentic teachings of the Church, each according to their own
   traditions. Because of political upheaval, war, and religious
   persecution, the twentieth century saw an unprecedented emigration—one
   that continues today—of Eastern Catholics who are a minority in their
   countries of origin and who must struggle to maintain their faith and
   their traditions in the United States in the context of the predominant
   Latin Church.

   Pope John Paul II urges in his apostolic letter Orientale Lumen that a
   "conversion is . . . required of the Latin Church, that she may respect
   and fully appreciate the dignity of Eastern Christians, and accept
   gratefully the spiritual treasures of which the Eastern Catholic
   Churches are the bearers, to the benefit of the entire catholic
   Communion" (no. 21).

   The immigrants among us thus bring a richness that we are bound to
   embrace, for their sake and for our own. As Pope Paul VI noted, in
   words recently recalled by Pope John Paul II, "The Church can regard no
   one as excluded from its motherly embrace, no one as outside the scope
   of its motherly care. It has no enemies except those who wish to make
   themselves such. Its catholicity is no idle boast. It was not for
   nothing that it received its mission to foster love, unity and peace
   among men" (Ecclesiam Suam, no. 94). The way to achieve this mission
   was presented on January 22, 1999, when Pope John Paul II stood beneath
   the image of Our Lady of Guadalupe in Mexico City and delivered to the
   whole Church the post-synodal apostolic exhortation Ecclesia in
   America—On the Encounter with the Living Jesus Christ: The Way to
   Conversion, Communion and Solidarity in America. This is the way we
   will follow in this document.

A Call to Conversion

   Though we celebrate the diversity within our communities, we bishops
   must also confess that today, as in the past, the treatment of the
   immigrant too often reflects failures of understanding and sinful
   patterns of chauvinism, prejudice, and discrimination that deny the
   unity of the human family, of which the one baptism is our enduring
   sign. Such patterns, in the words of Pope John Paul II, "show the
   urgent need for a transformation of structures and a change of
   mentality, which is what the Great Jubilee of the Year 2000 asks of
   Christians and every person of good will" (Message for World Migration
   Day 2000, no. 1). For Catholics especially, a recognition of failures
   in the face of the opportunities and challenges of the new immigration
   should serve as a call to a renewal of baptismal vows, through
   repentance and a sharing in the mercy of the one Lord who would gather
   all to himself in the unity of the children of God.

   We bishops must confess, as well, that recent immigrants have not
   always encountered welcome in the Church. Today immigrants of all sorts
   too often face prejudice within the Church. At times their legitimate
   desire to worship in their own language, according to their own
   traditions, has not been satisfied. Some have been turned away by
   pastors or find their petition for a Mass in their own language and a
   share in parish facilities opposed by members of the parish community.
   For those who live far from concentrated populations of people who
   share their heritage, there is often no alternative but to struggle
   through the English Mass while the deepest expressions of their spirit
   cry out silently in another language. Where the Church has not been
   welcoming, many have turned to other sources of community and religious
   fulfillment, but at the expense of abandoning the riches of their
   Catholic faith and native traditions.

   Forgetful of Our Heritage
   Perhaps the greatest obstacle to welcoming the stranger is that many
   Americans have forgotten their immigrant past. "Nativism" assumes that
   there is just one image of a "real American" and that immigrants either
   cannot live up to it or willfully refuse to do so. Originally directed
   against Catholics of all sorts, today such nativism can be seen in a
   campaign against "multiculturalism" in all its forms, on the premise
   that reverence for distinctive traditions and histories undermines the
   unity of American society. Like the Catholic "Americanizers" of the
   nineteenth century, who opposed the establishment of national parishes,
   the critics of multiculturalism today want immigrants and other
   distinctive groups to shed their languages, customs, and identities as
   quickly as possible, to become Americans "just like the rest of us."
   But "the rest of us" are, in fact, a culturally plural
   society—Catholics, Protestants, Jews, and Muslims; believers and
   non-believers; Southerners and Northerners; Irish, Italian, and
   Mexican—proud of our heritages and proud to be Americans, all at once.

   A kind of nativism appears in the Church itself when established
   members insist that there is just one way to worship, one set of
   familiar hymns, one small handful of familiar devotions, one way to
   organize a parish community, one language for all—and that immigrants
   must adapt to that way of doing things. In doing so, such nativists
   forget not only that their ancestors spoke different languages and
   worshiped in different ways not long ago, but that their devotions and
   familiar saints, even their patterns of church organization, sprang
   from encounters between differing traditions within the Church.

   Competition for Resources
   Competition for resources and recognition among the ethnic groups of
   the parish often centers on specifics such as Mass times, the use of
   facilities, and the attention of priests; but such conflicts can
   reflect vague fears that one group will somehow displace a
   long-established one. Established parishioners, used to thinking of
   their parish practices and religious traditions as the norm, may cling
   to their control over the parish council or "prime" Sunday Mass times.
   They may find themselves increasingly a minority and may react with
   fear to protect the parish where they were raised and where they saw
   their children baptized and educated in the faith. African American
   Catholics, who have their own history of having been excluded and
   discriminated against in the larger Church, as in society in general,
   now face newcomers in many of their parishes, newcomers who threaten
   their hold on the few institutions where they have come to feel at
   home. In some cases, multiple immigrant groups compete with one another
   within a single parish. In other cases, immigrant clergy struggle with
   their bishop or pastor for control over the finances of an immigrant
   group or for final authority over the congregation. While such
   competition can be destructive of community life, the issues involved
   are often real, and they require wisdom, much charity, and careful
   mediation to reach solutions that respect the legitimate concerns of
   all sides.

   Cultural Fears
   The fears associated with encounters between groups are often difficult
   to overcome precisely because they are unacknowledged or unclear. Some
   are afraid because they do not know how to behave with others of a
   different culture. Others—in ignorance, relying on stereotypes—are
   convinced that those who are different are also somehow inferior: less
   educated, "dirty," or dangerous. Negative images and derogatory jokes
   and remarks readily merge with racism, America's "original sin,"
   reinforcing the fear of the unknown in many people's minds by creating
   stereotypes about people whose facial features or skin color identify
   them as Asian, Arab, African, or Mexican. In some instances, racism has
   been so deeply ingrained that an institutional racism prevails. Racist
   attitudes can linger in subtle ways, even when people get to know one
   another in parish activities, unless we vigorously educate ourselves
   about our neighbors, learn to appreciate their heritages, encounter
   their own images of us, and strive to work with them on behalf of
   common causes.

   Some of our fears are tied to what we see as defense of our own culture
   or way of life. Many people cling—rightfully so—to their distinctive
   culture. They fear the loss of their own familiar ways of doing things
   as they encounter new images and practices of community life and
   worship that are foreign to them. Immigrants themselves often fear
   other groups and worry that their children will lose the values of the
   homeland, come to show disrespect towards their parents and elders, and
   exchange their own culture for the consumer values of the surrounding
   society. Such concerns are well founded, and they compound the
   difficulties of adaptation to a new setting as both host and immigrant
   react, each against the other, in fear of change.

   Change, however, is inevitable as immigrants set down roots in this
   country, enriching American culture while adopting aspects of it
   themselves. Indeed, it would be a mistake to regard any culture as
   fixed and immutable. All cultures are in constant processes of change
   as their members seek new ways to address individual and group needs
   and as they encounter new situations and other cultures. Indeed, no
   culture is either permanent or perfect. All constantly need to be
   evangelized and uplifted by the good news of Jesus Christ. The
   encounter between cultures that is an everyday affair in the
   incorporation of immigrants into the Church and the communities of the
   United States should provoke not only adaptation on both sides but a
   critical discernment of the strengths and failings of each culture in
   the light of the Gospel.

   Institutional Obstacles
   Institutional inadequacies have also impeded the full-fledged welcome
   and communion to which the Church is called. Parish and diocesan
   structures have not always been flexible enough to accommodate sudden
   influxes of new groups. Parishes have found themselves serving faith
   communities that draw members from far outside parish boundaries,
   raising questions about the sources and limits of parish resources. And
   regrettably, some parishes have found that their parishioners have
   imbibed the post-1960s societal attitude of exclusion of new
   immigrants. In many cases, immigrant Catholics have been attracted to
   evangelical and Pentecostal churches, leaving behind their Catholic
   faith.

   Many pastors struggle to accommodate separate worship communities who
   celebrate their faith in their native tongues within the same parish.
   Pastors strive to meet the needs of multiple culturally diverse groups
   who are too small to support their own Eucharist and specialized
   programs. Similarly, pastors who wish to serve whoever approaches the
   altar may lack the experience or the models to know how to reach out to
   newcomers who are not Catholic or whose Catholicism has not included a
   regular liturgical life or whose faith is tied more closely to home and
   family than to the parish community.

   Immigrant communities must find priests willing and able to minister in
   their language and a place to gather for worship and community
   activities. They are often at a loss as to how to supply themselves
   with liturgical texts and educational materials and how to develop a
   sense of communion with a diocese whose language is not their own. They
   struggle to balance the competing demands of U.S. schools and the
   larger culture on their youth with their own desires to benefit their
   children with traditional values and culture. Immigrant priests may
   find themselves jealous of their own autonomy and better able to relate
   to their own priests' associations and dioceses of origin than to the
   priests and diocese of their U.S. home, where they may feel a lack of
   welcome.

   The tensions and debates occasioned by such concerns can sometimes lead
   to greater understanding within the Church. But they can also lead, in
   the extreme, to painful schisms and the alienation of the faithful from
   the Church. Taken together—and despite the efforts of many
   dioceses—such tensions make clear that the Church has not adequately
   addressed the host of questions that surround pastoral ministry to the
   new immigrants. In this and the other respects mentioned above, the
   Church of the twenty-first century requires a profound conversion in
   spirit and in its institutions to reflect its own cultural pluralism,
   to address the needs of the whole Catholic community, and to further a
   genuine communion and solidarity among the diverse members of the Body
   of Christ.

   This debate on the effective and adequate response of current church
   institutions to the new immigrant reality echoes the discussion in the
   Synod of America and Ecclesia in America on the effectiveness of parish
   structures:

     Because of the particular problems they present, special attention
     needs to be given to parishes in large urban areas, where the
     difficulties are such that normal parish structures are inadequate
     and the opportunities for the apostolate are significantly reduced.
     The institution of the parish, however, retains its importance and
     needs to be preserved. For this, there is a need "to keep looking
     for ways in which the parish and its pastoral structures can be more
     in effective in urban areas." (no. 41)


A Call to Communion


   As Catholics we are called to take concrete measures to overcome the
   misunderstanding, ignorance, competition, and fear that stand in the
   way of genuinely welcoming the stranger in our midst and enjoying the
   communion that is our destiny as Children of God. We commit ourselves,
   accordingly, to working to strengthen understanding among the many
   cultures that share in our Catholic faith, to promoting intercultural
   communication among our people, and to seeing that those in ministry to
   our communities gain the language and cultural skills necessary to
   minister to the immigrants in our midst.

   Coming to Understand Others as the First Form of Hospitality
   Time and time again, Pope John Paul II has echoed the teachings of his
   predecessors and of the Second Vatican Council that "it is one of the
   properties of the human person that he can achieve true and full
   humanity only by means of culture" (Gaudium et Spes, no. 53) and that
   to take away a person's culture is therefore to damage human dignity
   grievously. Communion does not abolish differences but brings together
   one family, diverse and united in the one Lord. Pope Paul VI urged that
   "it must be avoided that these diversities and adaptations in
   accordance with the various ethnical groups, even though legitimate,
   result in harm to that unity to which all are called in the Church"
   (Pastoralis Migratorum Cura). Thus, the Church's norms for the pastoral
   care of immigrants attempt to balance the legitimate rights of
   immigrants with their duty to look to the common good of both their
   communities of origin and their host community (Instruction on the
   Pastoral Care of People Who Migrate, nos. 5-11).

   The Church embraces the rich cultural pluralism of this immigrant
   nation—what some call its "multicultural" reality.^5 Pope John Paul II
   insists that "the immigrant members of the Church, while freely
   exercising their rights and duties and being in full ecclesial
   communion in the particular churches, feeling themselves Christians and
   brothers towards all, must be able to remain completely themselves as
   far as language, culture, liturgy and spirituality, and particular
   traditions are concerned" (Address for World Migrants' Day, July 16,
   1985). Indeed, the pope warns repeatedly against attempting to rush a
   process of assimilation or cultural adaptation in the name of unity,
   because the goal is the mutual enrichment of peoples, not their
   assimilation to one way of being human. Thus the pope reached out to
   refugees in the camp at Phanat Nikon, Thailand, in November 1984,
   saying, "My heart is with you. Have faith in yourselves. Don't forget
   your identity as a free people with your own legitimate place in this
   world. Don't lose your distinctive personality as a people! Remain
   firmly rooted in your respective cultures. The world needs to learn
   more from you and to join in appreciation of your uniqueness."

   The pope teaches that immigrants must guard their cultures for the
   enrichment of the world. But the cultures of immigrants will only be
   able to enrich this country when all Americans—recent immigrants and
   those long settled in this country—open their hearts and minds to their
   neighbors and come to appreciate the diverse cultures that make up this
   society. Knowledge of cultures cannot just come from books, but must
   come from the concrete efforts of individuals to get to know their
   neighbors, in all their diversity.

   The welcome and hospitality that we ask our parishes to extend to
   newcomers must include active efforts on the part of the pastor and
   parish staff, individuals and families, parish councils, liturgy
   committees, social concern entities, youth groups, and other parish
   organizations to undertake the special effort necessary to learn about
   the cultures in their midst and to exchange visits with worship
   communities and parishes where different cultural groups make their
   homes. Special events such as international dinners, common social
   events, and multicultural parish feasts can help to introduce the
   various members of the parish to other cultures and can lead to greater
   exchanges between groups. The parish is encouraged to sponsor forums in
   which members of different cultures can openly share their unique
   backgrounds and identify areas of unity.

   The eucharistic celebration is central to church life and to our
   communion as Catholics with one another in the one Lord. Whenever the
   diverse cultures of parish and diocese are able to share the Eucharist
   in special celebrations that reflect the cultural riches of the
   participants, the Church demonstrates in the sacrament of our unity the
   multicultural face of the Church, proclaiming "with joy and firm faith
   that God is communion, Father, Son and Holy Spirit, unity in
   distinction, and that he calls all people to share in that same
   Trinitarian communion" (Ecclesia in America, no. 34).

   Intercultural Communication
   Efforts to learn and worship together may come to nothing at all—or
   even reinforce prejudices—unless they are carried out with a spirit of
   openness and charity. Not everything in one culture will meet with the
   approval of another. There may be disagreements about child-rearing
   practices, the place of women in the liturgy, styles of preaching, or
   suitable expressions of piety. Such differences are inevitable even
   within one culture. But in cross-cultural encounters, disagreements
   must be informed by understanding the roots of people's attitudes and
   practices and with respect for their right to find their own way within
   the one Gospel. Understanding will come with a growing knowledge of the
   history, values, and experiences of others. Respect must be born of
   charity and faith in the ultimate unity in Christ of all humanity.

   Intercultural communication—sustained efforts, carried out by people of
   diverse cultures, to appreciate their differences, work out conflicts,
   and build on commonalities—will thus be an important component of
   coming to know and respect the diverse cultures that make up today's
   Church. The dominant culture in the United States stresses the
   individual and his or her feelings and decisions. In less
   individualistic cultures, individuals may feel hesitant to express
   their own opinions openly, even in a friendly setting, without
   reinforcement from the group. Among immigrants of the same group, too,
   divisions along lines of social class or educational background can
   erect barriers to understanding, with some members adapting to the
   procedures and practices of parish life more readily than others.
   Often, culturally sensitive intermediaries are needed to facilitate
   exchanges, mediate conflicts, and promote genuine participation by all.

   Integration will be facilitated when all parties maintain an open
   spirit. Integration cannot be forced, and those who host newcomers must
   be especially aware of the vulnerabilities of immigrants and the
   impulse many immigrants feel to withdraw from interaction. Pastors and
   lay leaders who are aware of these dynamics of adaptation and
   communication among cultures will lead the way in facilitating the
   full, equal incorporation of all members of the community into the life
   of the Church.

   Languages for Ministry
   Special efforts to acquire the languages of the new immigrants by all
   church ministers constitute an essential, concrete step towards a full
   and effective welcome. In some cases, immigrant groups have brought
   with them significant numbers of priests and religious. This is true of
   the Vietnamese community, which has continued to produce vocations in
   large numbers in this country. In other cases, the home country's
   Church is sufficiently strong to send priests and religious to the
   United States to minister to immigrant communities from that country,
   as was the case in earlier waves of migration to this country. In many
   cases today, however, there are many immigrants but few priests, and
   dioceses must make special provisions to find or train priests,
   religious, and lay people capable of ministering to the newcomers in
   their own languages and cultures. Missionary orders have contributed
   magnificently to filling this need. In some dioceses, every seminarian
   is required to master a language other than English relevant to
   ministry to local immigrant communities. This practice should be
   encouraged throughout the United States. Priests, seminarians,
   religious, and lay ministers should all be encouraged to learn a
   language and acquire cultural knowledge relevant to their ministry.^6
   Study abroad is generally the best way to do this, and it should be
   widely encouraged.

   Especially in the case of some of the smaller immigrant groups, priests
   may have only a rudimentary knowledge of the language of the group they
   serve. Then they must depend upon religious, lay leaders, deacons, and
   trained catechists to ensure an effective ministry. And even where
   priests with the necessary language skills are available, it is
   important that other members of the larger community acquire the
   ability to communicate with immigrants in their own languages as part
   of a wider effort to develop more inclusive relations at the parish and
   diocesan levels, carry on the necessary work of evangelization, and
   promote diocesan programs capable of genuinely uniting diverse
   communities. The clergy and lay leaders should acquire a proficiency in
   English as quickly as possible and continue to improve their public
   speaking skills in English so as to further the communion of their
   communities with the wider Church in the United States. Parishes should
   provide opportunities for immigrants, including the elderly, to acquire
   proficiency in the English language.

   Ministry in a Multicultural Church
   Language acquisition on behalf of intercultural communication and
   effective ministry is just one practical step towards the fuller
   incorporation of the new immigrants into our communities. The Church as
   an institution needs to undertake other practical steps at national,
   diocesan, and parish levels.

     National or Regional Level
     At the national or regional level, efforts must be made to provide
     liturgical and catechetical materials for communities who do not
     have ready access to such materials in their language. Most dioceses
     lack the resources to provide such materials for more than one or
     two groups. Similarly, diocesan seminaries and lay ministry training
     programs are often ill-equipped to provide priests, religious, and
     lay leaders with the full range of linguistic, cultural, and
     intercultural communication training necessary to serve even local
     needs.

     Efforts to redress these problems could be furthered by the creation
     of regional pastoral centers, serving the needs of one or several
     immigrant ethnic communities and financed by the dioceses they
     serve. Such centers could encourage theological reflection based on
     the traditions and experience of the various national churches
     represented in our immigrant communities. They could provide the
     translation services mentioned above and serve as a source for
     liturgical and catechetical materials for the communities they
     represent, as well as develop training materials for pastors,
     religious, and lay leaders in these communities. And they could
     offer training for all those involved in ministry to specific groups
     within the dioceses of their regions, extending the range of
     possibilities of language education, intercultural communication
     training, and education for ministry in a multicultural Church more
     generally.

     Diocesan Level
     Dioceses are the best equipped to address the multiple needs of the
     contemporary Church at the local level. The bishop as pastor of a
     diverse people has the care for all that concerns their life
     together. Thus, in developing diocesan policies and programs
     responsive to the reality of today's immigrant Church, bishops must
     take care to both respect the dignity of the diverse communities of
     the diocese and draw them to unity in the one Church, striking that
     balance between the legitimate rights of immigrants to worship
     according to their own traditions and the concern for the common
     life of the Church in the United States. Diocesan authorities must
     decide when and how to honor the desire of immigrant groups for
     their own chapel, mission, or personal parish; how to foster a
     spirit of openness and welcome towards immigrant communities within
     parishes; how to promote the effective evangelization of all members
     of the local church and of those outside the Church; and how to
     bring together peoples of all the diverse cultures of the Church
     into one community.

     We bishops commit ourselves with renewed energy to display a spirit
     of welcome, and we encourage all those involved in ministry to share
     in that spirit. We will look to the successful models of the past,
     such as the national parish, or contemporary practices in other
     dioceses, and adapt them to the needs and circumstances of our own
     dioceses. In each of our dioceses we will build up programs of
     ministry to immigrants and support them with new resources to the
     extent possible, in recognition of the growing contributions of our
     immigrant communities to the larger Church, and we will insist that
     pastors lend their support. Our diocesan seminaries must prepare
     seminarians for ministry to the Church of the twenty-first century.
     At the same time, we will devote resources to developing programs of
     cultural understanding and intercultural communication for religious
     and lay ministers. We bishops have a special responsibility to
     address questions of social justice for migrants of all sorts,
     participating in national and local efforts to combat discrimination
     and ensure equitable treatment under the law to all.

     In the past, personal parishes were established successfully in some
     places to accommodate the needs and desires of strong, local
     immigrant communities. At the same time, not all groups have had the
     financial resources or numbers to sustain a parish of their own.
     Dioceses may need to develop guidelines to help parishes or
     deaneries respond to smaller or more dispersed groups so that they
     sense that they are welcome and have facilities appropriate to their
     needs.

     Most dioceses have already provided modest resources to offices of
     ethnic ministry. The more these offices can be led by members of the
     communities being served, the better. In some cases, the bishop has
     appointed a vicar in charge of ministry to larger or more dispersed
     groups. In a few dioceses, Hispanic ministry in particular has been
     integrated into all of the offices of the diocese, providing
     constant feedback on how to address the needs of the Hispanic
     community within the various diocesan programs. In many dioceses,
     offices of ethnic ministry are able to ensure that parish positions
     are filled so as to serve the immigrant communities within the
     diocese. And many dioceses have designed diocesan-wide events to
     bring together the various cultures of the Catholic community. All
     of these efforts need to be studied and strengthened as the Church
     in the United States strives to celebrate the many gifts that
     immigrant communities bring to the Church in America.

     Parish Level
     Immigrants will experience the Church's welcome most personally at
     the level of the parish. Pastors and parish staff, accordingly, must
     be filled with a spirit of welcome, responding to a new and perhaps
     little-understood culture. They will be able to do so precisely to
     the extent that they have received the support of the diocese and
     the training that should go with it. A pastor with an open and
     welcoming spirit who insists that the whole parish participate in
     such a spirit can make a tremendous difference in relations among
     different groups. Pastors need to know about effective models for
     accommodating multiple cultural groups within a single parish
     structure. At the same time, the effort to mediate competing demands
     for facilities and lingering rivalries among groups requires
     sensitivity to the needs and styles of both cultures, as well as
     patience, charity, and communications skills. Pastors should make
     every effort to assist and encourage Eastern Catholics to find
     parishes that offer pastoral care according to their own traditions
     and rites. In the past immigrants belonging to Eastern Catholic
     churches were lost to those churches because of the lack of Eastern
     Catholic clergy, churches, and services. Sometimes they were joined
     to the Latin church, regrettably because of social and demographic
     pressures. Membership in a particular church of the immigrant (e.g.,
     Eastern Catholic Church) must be respected.

     Reaching out to immigrants who are not Catholics or who, though
     Catholic, have not yet participated fully in the life of the parish
     requires language and cultural skills, as well as an evangelical
     zeal that will need to be developed among more pastors, associates,
     religious, and lay people through outreach committees or census
     programs. Lay people, especially those who share language and
     cultural background with the immigrant group, can be invaluable
     bridges in efforts to incorporate immigrant communities into the
     life of the parish and reach out to non-believers among the new
     immigrants. In many of the countries from which the new immigrants
     come, it was the lay catechist who led people to conversion or a
     deeper appreciation of the faith. Lay catechists were the leaders
     and evangelizers of their people. Their ministry needs to be
     reaffirmed and strengthened in the new context.

     Catholic Charities offers comprehensive services in most dioceses.
     Pastors can look to Catholic Charities for help in their response to
     new immigrants. Social service, legal assistance, and adult
     education programs—including English as a second language,
     parenting, job training programs, and citizenship classes—can serve
     as valuable outreach to newcomers. The parish can also provide
     immigrants with forums for addressing social, emotional, and
     economic needs. Models and methods of a genuinely evangelical parish
     life need to be developed and disseminated so that pastors and lay
     leaders may choose among those best adapted to providing effective
     outreach to newcomers. In some cases, individual pastors or
     consortia of parishes, sometimes in conjunction with congregations
     of other faiths or secular organizations, can create immigration and
     social service agencies to serve particular neighborhoods.

     At the same time, parishes can become sites for dialogue and
     cooperation, not only with the Protestant denominations that share
     our common Christian faith, but also with Buddhists, Hindus,
     Muslims, Jews, and others. Despite differences, all share common
     goals of providing for the religious and material needs of immigrant
     communities, and all have much to gain by working together.

     Today's immigrants bring a vast richness of gifts, from new
     spiritual movements to a renewal of devotion to Mary in the great
     variety of national devotions, such as that to Our Lady of
     Guadalupe. In many dioceses, a renewal of vocations to the
     priesthood and religious life is one evident fruit of the new
     immigration, while lay participation in ministry has blossomed in
     many ethnic ministries.

     The Special Needs of Youth
     Of special concern are the youth of immigrant communities. Some are
     themselves immigrants, who despite a facility for acquiring English
     may feel especially torn between their original culture and that of
     their new home—fully at home in neither one culture nor the other.
     Others were born in this country, and though their first language
     may have been that of their parents, they quickly acquire the
     fluency of a native not only in the English language but in the
     prevailing culture in their schools and neighborhoods. In either
     case, young people may find themselves frequently in conflict with
     their parents and elders over ways of behaving and speaking, values,
     and beliefs, as they become "American" while living within an
     immigrant household and community that retain the country of
     origin's culture. Such conflicts are painful for both sides, and one
     or the other may call upon the Church to defend its particular
     claims and values. Young people can also experience conflict with
     their peers who—because of insecurity or insensitivity—cause
     unnecessary division.

     The Church recognizes the centrality of the family in the upbringing
     of  the young and cherishes the great value that many immigrant
     cultures place upon the family. At the same time, it also has a duty
     to provide for the young as they struggle for their own identity and
     their own adaptation within the larger culture. Recreational,
     educational, and spiritual programs for youth can provide
     opportunities for helping them to understand and accommodate the
     claims of their parents while accepting what is wholesome in the
     culture around them. These programs can also help young people live
     in harmony with their peers. Everyday pastoral care and special
     programs for parents can help them understand and accept the
     struggles of their children, even as they reinforce the confidence
     that their children have already assimilated much of what they have
     to teach them despite the dissensions of the moment. Religious
     education programs can play a special role here in attempting to
     bridge the gap between cultures within the context of the one faith
     and to help the young deal positively with the tensions and
     difficulties they face.

     In some instances, families are drawn to the parish precisely to
     take advantage of the school. Their immersion in their children's
     education puts them into regular contact with parish personnel and
     members of other cultural groups. In other cases, immigrants have
     had no experience of Catholic schools in their country of origin and
     require the encouragement (and often financial aid) of the parish to
     take advantage of this opportunity. Catholic schools can provide the
     children of immigrants with opportunities to adapt to American
     culture in a context permeated by the faith and in an atmosphere of
     hospitality to all cultures, and they can do much to promote
     cultural understanding and respect among parents and students alike.
     Catholic schools can also be powerful instruments of evangelization
     for immigrant communities who, though outside the Church, find in
     the schools a welcoming and supportive environment for the education
     of their children. But for a great many immigrants, none of this can
     be accomplished unless Catholic schools are made affordable for the
     poorer members of the community, a goal to which the diocese may
     have to contribute through sister-parish arrangements or outright
     grants of diocesan funds.

The Call to Solidarity

   The Gospel calls us to solidarity with those who are suffering,
   vulnerable, and in need. In this spirit we recall the words of Pope
   John Paul II, who proclaimed, "The Church hears the suffering cry of
   all who are uprooted from their own land, of families forcefully
   separated, of those who, in the rapid changes of our day, are unable to
   find a stable home anywhere. She senses the anguish of those without
   rights, without any security, at the mercy of every kind of
   exploitation, and she supports them in their unhappiness" (Message for
   World Migration Day 2000, no. 6). Among today's immigrants, those who
   have fled war, famine, civil unrest, and economic desperation deserve
   our special understanding and support; but seafarers, those in the
   aviation world, and migrant workers, too, suffer uprootedness,
   discrimination, and injustice, along with all people on the move:
   circus and carnival workers, truckers, tourists, pilgrims, Gypsies, and
   Irish travelers.
   In an age of economic globalization, a special concern of a culture of
   solidarity must be the migrant worker, both rural and urban. These
   laborers are vital to our agricultural, construction, service, and
   tourist industries. From the time they leave their homes to the time
   they arrive at their place of work, these migrant workers—forced to
   search for a basic livelihood for their families—face hazardous border
   crossings. (In the  past five years, more than 500 have died at the
   U.S.–Mexico border because of increased border enforcement.) They are
   vulnerable to exploitation and abuse in transit, in border regions, and
   in the workplace. We bishops pledge ourselves, in the spirit of
   Ecclesia in America, to work in solidarity with the bishops of the
   migrants' countries of origin to provide for the safety, the basic
   needs, the human rights, and the effective pastoral care of these
   migrant workers. One of the propositions of the Synod of America
   asserts, "The Church in America must be a vigilant advocate, defending
   against any unjust restriction the natural right of individual persons
   to move freely within their own nation and from one nation to another.
   Attention must be called to the rights of migrants and their families
   and to respect for their human dignity, even in cases of non-legal
   immigration" (Ecclesia in America, no. 65).
   Solidarity with migrants and refugees will take many forms, from
   participating in efforts to ensure that the U.S. government respect the
   basic human rights of all immigrants, to providing direct assistance to
   immigrants through diocesan and parish programs. Particularly
   vulnerable are the immigrant elderly who often find themselves isolated
   in their new country, lacking in language skills and in the family and
   community support system that they enjoyed in their country of origin.
     Community organizing efforts can also be important vehicles for
   addressing the needs of immigrant communities and incorporating
   immigrants into civic life. Such efforts can provide the basis for
   achieving improved housing conditions, a living wage, better medical
   attention, and enhanced educational opportunities for all, and for
   empowering local communities. The United States Catholic Conference
   supports many such efforts through the Catholic Campaign for Human
   Development. The local church's participation in such efforts is
   important, both for the direct good that community organizing can do
   for individuals and groups and as part of a broader evangelization that
   proclaims God's care for all his children and the Church's special
   responsibility for the poor, the persecuted, and the stranger.
   The call to solidarity is also a call to promote the effective
   recognition of the rights of immigrants and to overcome all
   discrimination based on race, culture, or religion. "It means bearing
   witness to a fraternal life based on the Gospel, which respects
   cultural differences and is open to sincere and trustful dialogue"
   (Pope Paul VI, Octogesima Adveniens, no. 17). Especially since World
   War II, the Church has devoted special efforts on behalf of the human
   rights of migrants and refugees throughout the world, and in the United
   States in particular. At the national level the U.S. bishops' Office of
   Migration and Refugee Services has addressed these issues through
   participation in public policy debates, special programs for refugees,
   and aid to dioceses. Diocesan officials and parish leaders often
   participate as well in city- or region-wide bodies aimed at gaining
   recognition for immigrants in local affairs and combating
   discrimination.
   We Catholic bishops commit ourselves to continue to work at the
   national level to promote recognition of the human rights of all,
   regardless of their immigration status, and to advance fair and
   equitable legislation for refugees and prospective immigrants. Present
   efforts need to be strengthened and supported with new initiatives,
   both at the local level and at the national level as U.S. immigration
   law and practice change in the face of changing political pressures and
   social realities. In particular, Catholic lay people, diocesan
   officials, and bishops should continue to work together with community
   organizations, labor unions, and other religious bodies on behalf of
   the rights of immigrants in the workplace, schools, public services,
   our legal system, and all levels of government. The Catholic Church in
   the United States through the National Conference of Catholic Bishops,
   many of the state Catholic conferences, individual bishops, and other
   Catholic organizations have been meaningfully involved in social
   advocacy in behalf of migrant workers and other immigrants. We
   encourage others to place public social policies that impact this
   special population a higher priority.

Conclusion: A Call to a New Evangelization

   In Ecclesia in America, Pope John Paul II calls for a "new
   evangelization" centered on the person of Jesus Christ: "‘The encounter
   with the living Jesus Christ' is ‘the path to conversion, communion and
   solidarity'" (no. 7). This personal encounter with the risen Lord, so
   abundantly recounted in the Gospels, Epistles, and Acts of the
   Apostles, leads to a daily vision of the Lord present and active in the
   world, especially in the poor, in the stranger, and in the migrant and
   refugee. Those most in need draw the members of the Church out of their
   unawareness to a conversion of heart through which they are able to
   offer a genuine and suitable welcome, to share together as brothers and
   sisters at the same table, and to work side by side to improve the
   quality of life for society's most vulnerable members. All of this is
   an expression of the Spirit of the risen Jesus being poured out again
   on his followers.

   The Holy Spirit made manifest at Pentecost enabled people of diverse
   languages and cultures to understand the one message of salvation. The
   new evangelization means openness to the gifts of the Spirit wherever
   they might appear. Our response to the new immigration thus is informed
   by a renewed vision of what it is to be Church, and by a new
   spirituality, informed by the Spirit of Pentecost present in the
   sacrament of confirmation, which gives the power to discern the one
   message of the kingdom in the diverse customs and languages of our
   immigrant brothers and sisters.

   Immigrant communities give ample witness to what it is to be Church—in
   their desire to worship as a people, in their faith, in their
   solidarity with one another and with the weakest among them, in their
   devotion and their faithfulness to the Church of their ancestors. For
   the Church in the United States to walk in solidarity with newcomers to
   our country is to live out our catholicity as a Church. The Church of
   the twenty-first century will be, as it has always been, a Church of
   many cultures, languages and traditions, yet simultaneously one, as God
   is one—Father, Son, and Holy Spirit—unity in diversity.

   The new immigration is a reminder of the pilgrim state of the Church,
   made up of all those, regardless of race or class or national origin,
   who have been called to the wedding banquet and have responded (Lk
   14:23). As a pilgrim, the Church encompasses in itself all the reality
   of human suffering and all the glory of the human spirit infused with
   the grace of Christ. With its diverse pilgrim peoples, the Church in
   the United States has known uprootedness and loss, persecution and
   flight, the search for a better life, and the difficulties and
   disappointments of that search. The Church has known God's grace as it
   lifts spirits in times of despair, sustains hope in the face of
   hopelessness, and revives love despite evils and human frailties. In
   the one baptism, the Church acknowledges God's call to conversion,
   while in the sacrament of the Eucharist, she enjoys prefigured the
   glorious communion of Father and Son in the Holy Spirit. At the
   Eucharist the Church prefigures the revelation of "a great multitude .
   . . from every nation, race, people, and tongue" (Rev 7:9).

   In such a Eucharist, on that sunlit Jubilee Day of Migrants and
   Refugees in St. Peter's Square, Pope John Paul II summed up the
   challenge and hope for the Church in the United States as it welcomes
   the immigrants of the new millennium in a very simple but profound
   image:

     Like the disciples of Emmaus, believers, supported by the living
     presence of the risen Christ, become in turn the traveling
     companions of their brothers and sisters in trouble, offering them
     the word which rekindles hope in their hearts. With them they break
     the bread of friendship, brotherhood and mutual help. This is how to
     build the civilization of love. This is how to proclaim the
     hoped-for coming of the new heavens and the new earth to which we
     are heading. (no. 4)


Notes


    1. "In keeping with linguistic convention, the term Romani (also
       spelled Romany in the literature) is used to refer to any or all of
       the Romani dialects or languages. We use ‘Gypsies' to refer to the
       totality of all groups except the Irish and Scottish Travelers, and
       where the identity of the group is unverified." (Taken from Gypsies
       and Travelers in North America: An Annotated Bibliography, William
       G. Lockwood and Sheila Salo [Cheverly, Md.: The Gypsy Lore Society,
       1994].)

    2. In international and U.S. law, "refugees" are those who have fled
       past persecution or have a well-founded fear of future persecution
       on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a
       particular social group, or political opinion. While the United
       States may grant asylum or special consideration to some refugees,
       the process of obtaining such recognition is often fraught with
       difficulties, and many refugees must deal with the immigration
       system on the same terms as other immigrants.

    3. Congress enacted three major laws in 1996 that have had an adverse
       impact on immigrants: (1) the Illegal Immigration Reform and
       Immigrant Responsibility Act (IIRIRA), (2) the Anti-Terrorism and
       Effective Death Penalty Act (AEDPA), and (3) the Personal
       Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act (PRWORA).
       Taken together, these laws have undermined due process protections
       for immigrants and driven more immigrant families into poverty. The
       combined effect of IIRIRA and AEDPA have subjected immigrants who
       committed minor crimes in their past and have served their sentence
       to mandatory detention and deportation, separating them
       indefinitely from their loved ones. IIRIRA also removed judicial
       discretion for individual cases and increased the standard for
       immigrants to obtain relief from deportation. It further included
       provisions that allow the summary exclusion of asylum seekers from
       this country without the benefit of review of their asylum claims
       by an immigration judge and bars immigrants who reside in the
       country in an undocumented status for more than one year from
       returning to the United States for ten years. PRWORA, the federal
       welfare law, eliminated all legal immigrants from eligibility for
       public benefits. While some of these benefits have been restored,
       virtually all legal immigrants who entered the United States after
       1996 remain ineligible for benefits.

    4. Puerto Ricans, of course, are not immigrants, but many of them face
       the same challenges as recent immigrants. Much of the Hispanic
       population of the Southwestern United States, likewise, can trace
       its ancestry in what is now the United States back many years
       before the appropriation of these territories by the U.S.
       government. While having much in common in language and culture
       with recent immigrants, the Hispanos of New Mexico and many Mexican
       Americans throughout the country today welcome the newcomers in
       their midst as long-established residents of this country. At the
       same time, they have often experienced the discrimination and
       disadvantage associated with representing a subordinate culture in
       the United States, on a par with the experiences of recent
       immigrants.

    5. The term "multicultural," like others surrounding the question of
       immigration, has been much disputed in the United States. Like
       "cultural pluralism," "multicultural" may describe a society in
       which multiple cultures exist peaceably side by side, interacting
       in common social, economic, and political practices, while
       remaining distinct in others; respecting one another; learning from
       one another; and each changing at its own pace accordingly. The
       call for "incorporation" articulated in this letter shares in this
       spirit. It is not a call for "assimilation" or the disappearance of
       one culture into another, but for continuing cooperation in pursuit
       of the common good and with proper respect for the good of each
       cultural tradition and community.

    6. In February 1986 the Pontifical Commission for the Pastoral Care of
       Migrants and the Congregation for Catholic Education wrote a joint
       letter on the place of "Human Mobility in the Formation of Future
       Priests."


   The pastoral statement Welcoming the Stranger Among Us: Unity in
   Diversity was developed by the National Conference of Catholic Bishops'
   Committee on Migration. It was approved by the full body of bishops at
   their November 2000 general meeting as a statement of the National
   Conference of Catholic Bishops and is authorized for publication by the
   undersigned.


     Msgr. Dennis M. Schnurr
     General Secretary, NCCB/USCC

   Excerpts from Vatican II: The Conciliar and Post Conciliar Documents,
   New Revised Edition, edited by Austin Flannery, OP, copyright © 1996,
   Costello Publishing Company, Inc., Northport, N.Y., are used with
   permission of the publisher. All rights reserved.

   Scripture texts used in this work are taken from the New American
   Bible, copyright © 1991, 1986, and 1970 by the Confraternity of
   Christian Doctrine, Washington, D.C. 20017 and are used with permission
   of the copyright owner. All rights reserved.

   Copyright © 2000, United States Catholic Conference, Inc., Washington,
   D.C. All rights reserved. No part of this work may be reproduced or
   transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical,
   including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and
   retrieval system, without permission in writing from the copyright
   holder.

Dive into God's Word

     * Daily Readings
     * Listen to Podcasts
     * Watch our Videos

About USCCB

   The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops’ (USCCB’s) mission is
   to encounter the mercy of Christ and to accompany His people with joy.
   Learn More

Topics

     * Abortion
     * Africa
     * African American
     * Asia
     * Asian/Pacific Islander
     * Assisted Suicide
     * Bible
     * Bioethics
     * Catechesis
     * Catechetical Sunday
     * Catholic Safeguards
     * Catholic Social Teaching
     * Child and Youth Protection

   EXPAND ALL TOPICS

Prayer & Worship

     * Daily Readings Calendar
     * Books of the BIble
     * Search Mass Times
     * Prayer
     * Liturgical Year & Calendar
     * Sacraments
     * Liturgy of the Hours
     * The Mass

Get Involved to Act Now

     * Take Action
     * Help Now
     * Meetings & Events
     * Pray

Quick Links

     * Parish/Mass Finder
     * Resources
     * Calendars
     * E-mail Signup
     * Social Media
     * Catholic News Service
     * Movie Reviews

   ©2023 United States Conference of Catholic Bishops
     * Twitter
     * Facebook
     * Youtube
     * Linkedin
     * Instagram

     * United States Conference of Catholic Bishops is a 501(c)(3)
       non-profit organization
     * Privacy Policy

   Made possible by funding from
     * ccc-final
