   #Quartz - All stories

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TH42LHK

     * The A.V. Club
     * Deadspin
     * Gizmodo
     * Jalopnik
     * Jezebel
     * Kotaku
     * Lifehacker
     * Quartz
     * The Root
     * The Takeout
     *
     * The Onion
     *
     * The Inventory

   Make business better.™️
   Send us a tip!Shop

   HomeLatestFinanceEconomicsTechnologySustainabilityLifestyleQuartz at
   Work✉️ Emails
   We may earn a commission from links on this page.
   Make business better.™️

   HomeLatestFinanceEconomicsTechnologySustainabilityLifestyleQuartz at
   Work✉️ Emails

   CONDUIT TO CREATIVITY

To come up with more creative ideas, try talking to a stranger

   Science suggests it might be the best tactic for finding new and novel
   ideas
   Just consider another point of view.
   Just consider another point of view.
   Photo: 5213P (Shutterstock)
   By
   Gabriela Riccardi
   PublishedWednesday 2:31PM
   We may earn a commission from links on this page.

   When psychology lecturer Gillian Sandstrom began her master’s degree at
   Ryerson University, she’d walk from the research lab to her
   supervisor’s office in downtown Toronto. Gillian usually passed the
   same hot dog stand along the way. Day after day, she’d walk by the
   stand. And eventually, without meaning to, she struck up a relationship
   with the woman who worked there.

   “Every day when I walked past her, I would smile and wave,” she says in
   a podcast with the American Psychological Association. “She would wave
   back, and it just really made me feel good. And so I just started
   wondering—what’s going on here? Is this just me, or is this a thing?”
   Advertisement

   The question, she says, led her into her field of work: researching
   minimal social interactions, small interactions with strangers or
   acquaintances that can change the way we think and feel for the better.

   Perhaps it’s no surprise that connecting with a stranger prompted
   Sandstrom’s larger thinking. A new study from behavioral researchers
   reveals that interacting with strangers can be a key tactic for coming
   up with new ideas.

Brainstorm with strangers, refine with friends

   An emerging body of research already shows that talking with strangers
   can make us feel more optimistic and positive, scale up our empathy,
   boost our belonging, and gift us a sense of connection. This research,
   though, considers the impact strangers have on our ideas.

   The study looks to the role of our relationships in creative
   idea-making, drawing a line between the people who know us well and
   those who don’t. And it finds that those we have strong relationships
   with, like parents, partners, and close friends, aren’t actually the
   best people to help us brainstorm new endeavors. Instead, we should
   look to those we have looser connections with.
   Advertisement

   The difference divides between strong ties, or those close
   relationships, and weak ties, which includes distant companions, casual
   acquaintances, and even strangers. And the research finds that the
   latter group can help us generate more and better initial ideas. The
   less we know someone, the more likely they are to challenge our
   creative process.

   “Weak ties increase the chance of ‘creative accidents’ by providing
   diverse notions that collide in the brain,” the authors write. In other
   words, strangers and other people who have some distance from us can
   offer unfamiliar perspectives—which helps prompt more flexible,
   creative thinking from us. We’re even more likely to give novel
   insights and fresh perspectives more consideration when they come from
   someone we don’t know well.

   Pier Vittorio Mannucci, a Bocconi University management professor and
   one of the study’s co-authors, even put the theory to the test in his
   own life. Mannucci was writing a children’s book, I corsari del tempo
   (or The Time Pirates), where the main character discovers a site for
   time travel—along with other time travelers themselves. While
   brainstorming, he reached out to casual acquaintances who’d spent time
   in international places where the book would be set. The conversations
   he had helped him surface and settle on his creative direction.

   That’s not to say that the people we’re close to don’t have a role to
   play in helping us with our ideas. On the contrary, the people we
   consider our strong ties—our trusted collaborators, co-conspirators,
   and confidantes—are better for going deep on those ideas. That’s
   because they often share similar backgrounds or perspectives with us.
   “Instead of gaining new insights,” the researchers add, consulting with
   close connections can help build upon your existing knowledge or
   assumptions.
   Advertisement

   More simply, as Mannucci puts it: generate ideas with strangers, then
   elaborate on them with friends.

🖋 The Memo from Quartz at Work

   A dispatch from the world of modern work. Learn how you can help create
   a productive, creative, and compassionate work culture.
   ____________________
   (BUTTON)

   Quartz at WorkFuture of Work
