   #alternate

   MENU (BUTTON)

   Life
   Courtesy of Jamie Kenney

11 Things Well-Meaning Strangers Need To Stop Doing When It Comes To Other
People's Kids


   by Jamie Kenney
   Aug. 9, 2016

   I'll admit that my life is pretty precariously balanced right now. It's
   not that I need to set plans in stone but, as a mom, I thrive on
   routine. On Mondays, for example, we go grocery shopping. Still, all
   the planning in the world doesn't keep me from being tested literally
   every single week, not by the chore, not by my children, but by
   well-meaning strangers who consistently manage to throw off our groove.
   It's not just the grocery store, either: everywhere, sweet people, who
   only want to help, just need to, well, not. There are so many things
   well-meaning strangers need to stop when it comes to kids.

   People have a lot of feels when it comes to kids and, believe me, I get
   it. Like, if this entire topic could have a caveat/thesis statement it
   would be, "I get it." I'm a natural extrovert, I adore children, and I
   feel like I have a good rapport with most kids I encounter. I know the
   instincts of well-meaning strangers because, more often than not, they
   are my instincts, too. However, there are times we must fight our
   natural inclinations in order to accommodate other people's feelings
   and plans, because the road to "parent hell" is paved with good
   intentions from kind strangers.

   You've probably heard the famous Wendy Mass quote (or more likely, seen
   it on your favorite social media feed) that states, "Be kind, for
   everyone you meet is fighting a battle you know nothing about." This
   goes, like, triple for parents. Balancing a child's wants, needs,
   triggers, and everything in between is a full-time job in and of
   itself, without all the other crap one has to deal with as an adult
   with. You waltzing into my life, stranger, with your own aims and
   agendas (and even if you think they are compatible with mine) is likely
   to cause issues and screw up a good chunk of my day (or at least my
   hour, which can feel like a day in parenting time).

   And so, with this in mind please, just, don't do the following. Please.

Give Kids Food Without Asking

   Whether my kid looked up at you with pleading puppy dog eyes after
   seeing you reach into your purse for a hard candy, or you just know the
   little tyke would love some, please do not give food to a child without
   consulting that child's parent first. You don't know what religious
   dietary restrictions, allergies, family rules, or meal schedules you
   might be messing with, and the consequences of even the most
   well-meaning "treat" run the gamut between annoying and inconvenient to
   deadly.

Ask A Parent, Within A Kid's Range Of Hearing, If They Want A Treat

   I don't mean to nitpick here, because I do appreciate when people eager
   to do something nice for my little ones, consult me first. However, if
   that consultation is a loudly asked, "Would they like lollipops?" it's
   anything but helpful. All kids need to hear is "lollipop" to know that
   they now need one. With sweet, sugary goodness hanging in the balance,
   my children will harangue me until I say yes.

   So, when this specific instance takes place, I now have two choices:
   give in even if I'd rather they not have the lollipop to avoid option
   two, which is a downward spiral of child emotions. Now, I am willing
   and capable of either, depending on my mood and the day, but I'd rather
   not do either. So please, if you want to give my kid a treat of some
   kind, ask me in a way that they cannot hear or understand. You'd really
   be doing me a solid and you'll potentially avoid upsetting them.

Try To Engage A Clearly Emotional Kid

   Question: You see a child sobbing in the middle of a public space. Do
   you...

   A) Give obvious, judgmental, obnoxious side-eye.

   B) Offer the parent a silent, sympathetic look but simply move on

   C) Start talking to the child in an attempt to make them feel better

   If you answered A), this is a jerk move and I wish you'd stop, because
   you probably have no idea what's actually going on. However, sure, I
   can deal with your judgment because it's more a reflection on you than
   me. If you answered B) thank you very much, this is probably the best
   move. If you answered C), I may or may not (but definitely did) let out
   a sigh. This is so, so common and I get the good-natured impulse many
   people feel to try and help, especially from other parents. However, I
   would seriously pay an annual fee every year until my kid hits
   adulthood to never have to deal with this again.

   Think about it this way: if you were really emotional, would a very
   tall stranger approaching you, asking what was wrong and encouraging
   you not to cry, make you feel better? No. It would probably freak you
   out and you're an adult with the ability to process social interactions
   way better than a child. It sucks because I know people who do this are
   trying to be really nice, but they are only prolonging my child's
   crying jag/tantrum/whatever is going on because they're anxious about
   some random person getting all up in their grill.

Help A Kid When You See That Their Parent Is Watching

   I'm not saying you should never help a child. All too often I've been
   occupied with one child at the playground while another needed my help
   and a cool parent has stepped up to lend a hand. Perhaps they've helped
   my kid onto a swing or down from the jungle gym. I try to help out busy
   parents as well, to repay the universe for sending me good karma when I
   need it. This is just good citizenship. Having said that, there are
   other times when I am trying to get my 4-year-old or my 2-year-old to
   learn how to do something on their own. Like, I'm watching them, I've
   encouraged them, and then someone else comes along and says "Oh here,
   let me."

   I was right here! There's a reason I was letting them work it out
   without adult intervention. Now I just look like a big jerk and my kid
   is no closer to learning how to use the monkey bars.

Touch Someone Else's Kid

   The people who tend to do this the most in my life are self proclaimed
   "old teachers" and grandmothers. Look, I get it: kids are adorable and
   every now and then you want to sniff their heads or pinch their chubby
   legs or give them hugs. However, it's kinda weird and I wish you
   wouldn't. Like, ever.

   For one, I don't want my kid to be under the impression that strangers
   are allowed to touch them, because they're not. For another, my kid
   doesn't exist to feed your need to love something. My kid doesn't exist
   to feed my need to love something, and I made my kid and birthed my kid
   and I'm currently raising my kid! So please, don't hug someone else's
   baby. Just be cool and, perhaps, the opportunity will occur naturally
   over time.

Give Child Permission For Something

   If you don't know a kid, or if you only tangentially know a kid, you do
   not have the authority to tell them what they're allowed to do. Even if
   it's, like, let them play in your yard or take something you're
   offering, because the parent will have (and should have) the final say.
   I know you mean well, and you're probably just signaling to the parent,
   "Oh, it's OK, I don't mind," but you're not thinking about the fact
   that, for whatever reasons, the parents do mind.

Second Guess Someone Else's Parenting

   Obviously no two people are going to parent exactly alike. The best
   thing to do when you see a parent making a different decision than you
   probably would, is to revisit the old adage "mother/father knows best."
   This is especially true when you don't know the person in question.
   Seriously, just don't say anything, particularly not to my kids, as it
   will be both passive aggressive and undermining (plus it puts kids in
   the middle of an adult disagreement, which is just not good for anyone
   involved).

Go On About How Pretty Someone's Daughter Is

   This sounds obnoxious (who doesn't like a compliment), but hear me out.

   It's sweet that you pay my kid a compliment and, yeah, I think she's
   very pretty, too. However, when strangers constantly comment on her
   looks (and just her looks) that's sending a few messages I'd rather she
   not receive:

   "Your primary value lies in your appearance."

   "The best way to positive attention is via your looks."

   I'll also add that people do not compliment my (equally pretty, I
   think) son in the same way. He usually gets, "You're getting so big"
   or, "That's a cool toy you've got there."

   What happens as my little girl gets older and doesn't have that same
   level of baby cuteness anymore? All of a sudden, all those people who
   were telling her how "precious" she was aren't there praising her
   anymore. It's a bummer.

   This is a general plea to strangers: pay attention to how you're
   engaging little kids. All the random little comments they get from
   individual strangers have a cumulative effect.

Discipline Someone's Kid Without Expressed Permission

   Unless there's an emergency situation where my kid is actively harming
   or about to harm you, your child, or themselves (and I'm not there),
   please just let me handle it. Not your kid, not your business.

Insist To Someone's Kid That What You're Doing Is OK Because "I'm Nice"/"I'm
Your Friend"

   When I word it that way you can probably see why I'm against it, right?
   I mean, it sounds really creepy and predatory even when it isn't.
   However, I'm aware that in the moment, sometimes, people don't
   necessarily get that in their attempt to win a smile from a child, they
   sound, um, "untoward."

   Insisting that there is a level of intimacy between two strangers that
   does not actually exist because the adult in question wants to create a
   pleasant interaction, is just uncalled for and sets some potentially
   dangerous precedents for a child who is probably just working of a
   natural (and healthy) dose of stranger-danger.

Keep Trying To Win A Kid Over When It Just Isn't Happening

   I cannot stress enough how I understand this particular situation,
   because I feel like I have probably done this with kittens or puppies
   in the past. In the end you just want to express your squealing delight
   in the adorableness of this sweet, tiny little creature that you wind
   up trying way too hard, even after when that tiny creature has given
   you all the signs that they're just not that into you.

   However, just let it go. You're not going to win over the kid in the
   minimal amount of time you have, and your attempts are just sort of
   holding up the parent from whatever it is they're out and attempting to
   do. (And now they're having to do it with an increasingly agitated
   child in tow.) There will be other chances to talk to (more amenable)
   little kids and get a smile out of them.

   More Like This
   These easy breakfast ideas are perfect for kids to make themselves.
   15 Easy Breakfast Ideas For Kids To Make
   A girl putting on shoes with her mom, demonstrating some of the things
   you might find at the best pl...
   The 13 Best Places To Buy & Sell Second Hand Kids Stuff
   Loaded smashed potatoes, a fun and kid-friendly Christmas appetizer
   9 Kid-Friendly Christmas Appetizers For Your Little Guests
   A person who is distressed is laying in bed with their hands over their
   face, having a bad dream abo...
   These Are Most Common Nightmares Parents Have About Their Kids
   What Parents Are Talking About — Delivered Straight To Your Inbox
   ____________________ (BUTTON) Submit
   By subscribing to this BDG newsletter, you agree to our Terms of
   Service and Privacy Policy

   [ ] [ ]

   Dec. 31. 2022
   Romper
   SEARCH (BUTTON) CLOSE (BUTTON)
   ____________________
   (BUTTON)
   Reset
   (*)
   Pregnancy
   See AllTryingBirthAfter
   ( )
   Raising Kids
   See AllBabyToddlerLittle KidBig Kid
   ( )
   You
   See AllSex & RelationshipsWellnessStyle
   ( )
   Life
   See AllAmplifying Our VoicesFoodHomeEntertainmentPoliticsShopping
   Health
   AboutArchiveTermsPrivacyNewsletterArchiveAdvertiseMastheadEditorial
   Standards
   © 2022 BDG Media, Inc. All rights reserved.

   [p-xPmcrFNGfHkBg.gif]
   [p?c1=2&amp;c2=17519299&amp;cs_ucfr=0&amp;cv=2.0&amp;cj=1]
   [tr?id=1636673763227734&amp;ev=PageView&amp;noscript=1]
