   Poets.org
   (BUTTON)
   Poems
   Poets
   Poem-a-Day
   National Poetry Month
   Materials for Teachers
   Teach This Poem
   Poems for Kids
   Poetry for Teens
   Lesson Plans
   Resources for Teachers
   Academy of American Poets
   American Poets Magazine
     * Academy of American Poets
     * National Poetry Month
     * American Poets Magazine
     * Dashboard
     * Logout

     * Login
     * My Account
       Dashboard
       Logout
     * Membership Donate

   DonateDonate
   Poets.org Logo

Poems

   Find and share the perfect poems.
   ____________________
   search
   ____________________
   (BUTTON)
   find poems find poets poem-a-day library (texts, books & more)
   materials for teachers poetry near you
   (BUTTON)

To a Stranger

   Walt Whitman - 1819-1892
     * [facebook.svg]
     * [twitter.svg]
     * [tumblr.svg]
     * [print.svg]
     * [embed.svg]
     * [collection.svg]

   Passing stranger! you do not know how longingly I look upon you,
   You must be he I was seeking, or she I was seeking, (it comes to me as
   of a dream,)
   I have somewhere surely lived a life of joy with you,
   All is recall’d as we flit by each other, fluid, affectionate, chaste,
   matured,
   You grew up with me, were a boy with me or a girl with me,
   I ate with you and slept with you, your body has become not yours only
   nor left my body mine only,
   You give me the pleasure of your eyes, face, flesh, as we pass, you
   take of my beard, breast, hands, in return,
   I am not to speak to you, I am to think of you when I sit alone or wake
   at night alone,
   I am to wait, I do not doubt I am to meet you again,
   I am to see to it that I do not lose you.

   This poem is in the public domain.
   Walt Whitman

   Born on May 31, 1819, Walt Whitman is the author of Leaves of
   Grass and, along with Emily Dickinson, is considered one of the
   architects of a uniquely American poetic voice.
   Themes
   cities
   love
   About Walt Whitman >
   sign up for poem-a-day

   Receive a new poem in your inbox daily
   ____________________Email Address
   ____________________
   (BUTTON) Sign Up

More by Walt Whitman

To Think of Time

1

To think of time—of all that retrospection!
To think of to-day, and the ages continued henceforward!

Have you guess'd you yourself would not continue?
Have you dreaded these earth-beetles?
Have you fear'd the future would be nothing to you?

Is to-day nothing? Is the beginningless past nothing?
If the future is nothing, they are just as surely nothing.

To think that the sun rose in the east! that men and women
   were flexible, real, alive! that everything was alive!
To think that you and I did not see, feel, think, nor bear our
   part!
To think that we are now here, and bear our part!

2

Not a day passes—not a minute or second, without an
   accouchement!
Not a day passes—not a minute or second, without a corpse!

The dull nights go over, and the dull days also,
The soreness of lying so much in bed goes over,
The physician, after long putting off, gives the silent and terrible
   look for an answer,
The children come hurried and weeping, and the brothers and sisters
   are sent for,
Medicines stand unused on the shelf—(the camphor-smell has
   long pervaded the rooms,)
The faithful hand of the living does not desert the hand of the dying,
The twitching lips press lightly on the forehead of the dying,
The breath ceases, and the pulse of the heart ceases,
The corpse stretches on the bed, and the living look upon it,
It is palpable as the living are palpable.

The living look upon the corpse with their eye-sight,
But without eye-sight lingers a different living, and looks curiously
   on the corpse.

3

To think the thought of Death, merged in the thought of materials!
To think that the rivers will flow, and the snow fall, and fruits ripen,
   and act upon others as upon us now—yet not act upon us!
To think of all these wonders of city and country, and others taking
   great interest in them—and we taking no interest in them!

To think how eager we are in building our houses!
To think others shall be just as eager, and we quite indifferent!

(I see one building the house that serves him a few years, or seventy
   or eighty years at most,
I see one building the house that serves him longer than that.)

Slow-moving and black lines creep over the whole earth—they never
   cease—they are the burial lines,
He that was President was buried, and he that is now President shall
   surely be buried.

4

A reminiscence of the vulgar fate,
A frequent sample of the life and death of workmen,
Each after his kind:
Cold dash of waves at the ferry-wharf—posh and ice in the river,
   half-frozen mud in the streets, a gray, discouraged sky overhead,
   the short, last daylight of Twelfth-month,
A hearse and stages—other vehicles give place—the funeral
   of an old Broadway stage-driver, the cortege mostly drivers.

Steady the trot to the cemetery, duly rattles the death-bell, the gate
   is pass'd, the new-dug grave is halted at, the living alight, the
   hearse uncloses,
The coffin is pass'd out, lower'd and settled, the whip is laid on the
   coffin, the earth is swiftly shovel'd in,
The mound above is flatted with the spades—silence,
A minute—no one moves or speaks—it is done,
He is decently put away—is there anything more?

He was a good fellow, free-mouth'd, quick-temper'd, not bad-looking,
   able to take his own part, witty, sensitive to a slight, ready with
   life or death for a friend, fond of women, gambled, ate hearty,
   drank hearty, had known what it was to be flush, grew low-spirited
   toward the last, sicken'd, was help'd by a contribution, died, aged
   forty-one years—and that was his funeral.

Thumb extended, finger uplifted, apron, cape, gloves, strap, wet-weather
   clothes, whip carefully chosen, boss, spotter, starter, hostler,
   somebody loafing on you, you loafing on somebody, headway, man before
   and man behind, good day's work, bad day's work, pet stock, mean
   stock, first out, last out, turning-in at night;
To think that these are so much and so nigh to other drivers—and
   he there takes no interest in them!

5

The markets, the government, the working-man's wages—to think what
   account they are through our nights and days!
To think that other working-men will make just as great account of
   them—yet we make little or no account!

The vulgar and the refined—what you call sin, and what you call
   goodness—to think how wide a difference!
To think the difference will still continue to others, yet we lie beyond
   the difference.

To think how much pleasure there is!
Have you pleasure from looking at the sky? have you pleasure from poems?
Do you enjoy yourself in the city? or engaged in business? or planning a
   nomination and election? or with your wife and family?
Or with your mother and sisters? or in womanly housework? or the beautiful
   maternal cares?
—These also flow onward to others—you and I flow onward,
But in due time, you and I shall take less interest in them.

Your farm, profits, crops,—to think how engross'd you are!
To think there will still be farms, profits, crops—yet for you, of
   what avail?

6

What will be, will be well—for what is, is well,
To take interest is well, and not to take interest shall be well.

The sky continues beautiful,
The pleasure of men with women shall never be sated, nor the pleasure of
   women with men, nor the pleasure from poems,
The domestic joys, the daily housework or business, the building of
   houses—these are not phantasms—they have weight, form,
   location;
Farms, profits, crops, markets, wages, government, are none of them
   phantasms,
The difference between sin and goodness is no delusion,
The earth is not an echo—man and his life, and all the things of
   his life, are well-consider'd.

You are not thrown to the winds—you gather certainly and safely
   around yourself;
Yourself! Yourself! Yourself, forever and ever!

7

It is not to diffuse you that you were born of your mother and
   father—it is to identify you;
It is not that you should be undecided, but that you should be decided;
Something long preparing and formless is arrived and form'd in you,
You are henceforth secure, whatever comes or goes.

The threads that were spun are gather'd, the weft crosses the warp,
   the pattern is systematic.

The preparations have every one been justified,
The orchestra have sufficiently tuned their instruments—the
   baton has given the signal.

The guest that was coming—he waited long, for reasons—he
   is now housed,
He is one of those who are beautiful and happy—he is one of
   those that to look upon and be with is enough.

The law of the past cannot be eluded,
The law of the present and future cannot be eluded,
The law of the living cannot be eluded—it is eternal,
The law of promotion and transformation cannot be eluded,
The law of heroes and good-doers cannot be eluded,
The law of drunkards, informers, mean persons—not one iota thereof
   can be eluded.

8

Slow moving and black lines go ceaselessly over the earth,
Northerner goes carried, and Southerner goes carried, and they on the
   Atlantic side, and they on the Pacific, and they between, and all
   through the Mississippi country, and all over the earth.

The great masters and kosmos are well as they go—the heroes and
   good-doers are well,
The known leaders and inventors, and the rich owners and pious and
   distinguish'd, may be well,
But there is more account than that—there is strict account
   of all.

The interminable hordes of the ignorant and wicked are not nothing,
The barbarians of Africa and Asia are not nothing,
The common people of Europe are not nothing—the American
   aborigines are not nothing,
The infected in the immigrant hospital are not nothing—the
   murderer or mean person is not nothing,
The perpetual successions of shallow people are not nothing as
   they go,
The lowest prostitute is not nothing—the mocker of religion
   is not nothing as he goes.

9

Of and in all these things,
I have dream'd that we are not to be changed so much, nor the law
   of us changed,
I have dream'd that heroes and good-doers shall be under the present
   and past law,
And that murderers, drunkards, liars, shall be under the present
   and past law,
For I have dream'd that the law they are under now is enough.

If otherwise, all came but to ashes of dung,
If maggots and rats ended us, then Alarum! for we are betray'd!
Then indeed suspicion of death.

Do you suspect death? If I were to suspect death, I should die
   now,
Do you think I could walk pleasantly and well-suited toward
   annihilation?

10

Pleasantly and well-suited I walk,
Whither I walk I cannot define, but I know it is good,
The whole universe indicates that it is good,
The past and the present indicate that it is good.

How beautiful and perfect are the animals!
How perfect the earth, and the minutest thing upon it!

What is called good is perfect, and what is called bad is just
   as perfect,
The vegetables and minerals are all perfect, and the imponderable
   fluids are perfect;
Slowly and surely they have pass'd on to this, and slowly and surely
   they yet pass on.

11

I swear I think now that everything without exception has an
   eternal Soul!
The trees have, rooted in the ground! the weeds of the sea have!
   the animals!

I swear I think there is nothing but immortality!
That the exquisite scheme is for it, and the nebulous float is
   for it, and the cohering is for it;
And all preparation is for it! and identity is for it! and life
   and materials are altogether for it!

   Walt Whitman

   1855

This Compost

   1
   Something startles me where I thought I was safest,
   I withdraw from the still woods I loved,
   I will not go now on the pastures to walk,
   I will not strip the clothes from my body to meet my lover the sea,
   I will not touch my flesh to the earth as to other flesh to renew me.
   O how can it be that the ground itself does not sicken?
   How can you be alive you growths of spring?
   How can you furnish health you blood of herbs, roots, orchards, grain?
   Are they not continually putting distemper'd corpses within you?
   Is not every continent work'd over and over with sour dead?
   Where have you disposed of their carcasses?
   Those drunkards and gluttons of so many generations?
   Where have you drawn off all the foul liquid and meat?
   I do not see any of it upon you to-day, or perhaps I am deceiv'd,
   I will run a furrow with my plough, I will press my spade through the
   sod and turn it up underneath,
   I am sure I shall expose some of the foul meat.
   2
   Behold this compost! behold it well!
   Perhaps every mite has once form'd part of a sick person—yet behold!
   The grass of spring covers the prairies,
   The bean bursts noiselessly through the mould in the garden,
   The delicate spear of the onion pierces upward,
   The apple-buds cluster together on the apple-branches,
   The resurrection of the wheat appears with pale visage out of its
   graves,
   The tinge awakes over the willow-tree and the mulberry-tree,
   The he-birds carol mornings and evenings while the she-birds sit on
   their nests,
   The young of poultry break through the hatch'd eggs,
   The new-born of animals appear, the calf is dropt from the cow, the
   colt from the mare,
   Out of its little hill faithfully rise the potato's dark green leaves,
   Out of its hill rises the yellow maize-stalk, the lilacs bloom in the
   dooryards,
   The summer growth is innocent and disdainful above all those strata of
   sour dead.
   What chemistry!
   That the winds are really not infectious,
   That this is no cheat, this transparent green-wash of the sea which is
   so amorous after me,
   That it is safe to allow it to lick my naked body all over with its
   tongues,
   That it will not endanger me with the fevers that have deposited
   themselves in it,
   That all is clean forever and forever,
   That the cool drink from the well tastes so good,
   That blackberries are so flavorous and juicy,
   That the fruits of the apple-orchard and the orange-orchard, that
   melons, grapes, peaches, plums, will
      none of them poison me,
   That when I recline on the grass I do not catch any disease,
   Though probably every spear of grass rises out of what was once a
   catching disease.
   Now I am terrified at the Earth, it is that calm and patient,
   It grows such sweet things out of such corruptions,
   It turns harmless and stainless on its axis, with such endless
   successions of diseas'd corpses,
   It distills such exquisite winds out of such infused fetor,
   It renews with such unwitting looks its prodigal, annual, sumptuous
   crops,
   It gives such divine materials to men, and accepts such leavings from
   them at last.

   Walt Whitman

   1856

Thoughts

   1.
   OF the visages of things—And of piercing through
            to the accepted hells beneath;
   Of ugliness—To me there is just as much in it as
            there is in beauty—And now the ugliness of
            human beings is acceptable to me;
   Of detected persons—To me, detected persons are
            not, in any respect, worse than undetected per-
            sons—and are not in any respect worse than I
            am myself;
   Of criminals—To me, any judge, or any juror, is
            equally criminal—and any reputable person is
            also—and the President is also.
   2.
   OF waters, forests, hills;
   Of the earth at large, whispering through medium of
            me;
   Of vista—Suppose some sight in arriere, through the
            formative chaos, presuming the growth, fulness,
            life, now attain'd on the journey;
   (But I see the road continued, and the journey ever
            continued;)
   Of what was once lacking on earth, and in due time
            has become supplied—And of what will yet be
            supplied,
   Because all I see and know, I believe to have purport
            in what will yet be supplied.
   3.
   OF persons arrived at high positions, ceremonies,
            wealth, scholarships, and the like;
   To me, all that those persons have arrived at, sinks
            away from them, except as it results to their
            Bodies and Souls,
   So that often to me they appear gaunt and naked;
   And often, to me, each one mocks the others, and
            mocks himself or herself,
   And of each one, the core of life, namely happiness,
            is full of the rotten excrement of maggots,
   And often, to me, those men and women pass unwit-
            tingly the true realities of life, and go toward
            false realities,
   And often, to me, they are alive after what custom has
            served them, but nothing more,
   And often, to me, they are sad, hasty, unwaked son-
            nambules, walking the dusk.
   4.
   OF ownership—As if one fit to own things could not
            at pleasure enter upon all, and incorporate
            them into himself or herself;
   Of Equality—As if it harm'd me, giving others the
            same chances and rights as myself—As if it
            were not indispensable to my own rights that
            others possess the same;
   Of Justice—As if Justice could be anything but the
            same ample law, expounded by natural judges
            and saviors,
   As if it might be this thing or that thing, according
            to decisions.
   5.
   As I sit with others, at a great feast, suddenly, while
            the music is playing,
   To my mind, (whence it comes I know not,) spectral,
            in mist, of a wreck at sea,
   Of the flower of the marine science of fifty generations,
            founder'd off the Northeast coast, and going
            down—Of the steamship Arctic going down,
   Of the veil'd tableau—Women gather'd together on
            deck, pale, heroic, waiting the moment that
            draws so close—O the moment!
   O the huge sob—A few bubbles—the white foam
            spirting up—And then the women gone,
   Sinking there, while the passionless wet flows on—
            And I now pondering, Are those women indeed
            gone?
   Are Souls drown'd and destroy'd so?
   Is only matter triumphant?
   6.
   OF what I write from myself—As if that were not the
            resumé;
   Of Histories—As if such, however complete, were not
            less complete than my poems;
   As if the shreds, the records of nations, could possibly
            be as lasting as my poems;
   As if here were not the amount of all nations, and of
            all the lives of heroes.
   7.
   OF obedience, faith, adhesiveness;
   As I stand aloof and look, there is to me something
            profoundly affecting in large masses of men,
            following the lead of those who do not believe
            in men.

   Walt Whitman

   1867

Newsletter Sign Up

   ____________________
   [ ] Academy of American Poets Newsletter
   [ ] Academy of American Poets Educator Newsletter
   [ ] Teach This Poem
   [ ] Poem-a-Day
   ____________________ (BUTTON) submit

Support Us

     * Become a Member
     * Donate Now
     * Get Involved
     * Make a Bequest
     * Advertise with Us
     * Poets Shop

Follow Us

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

poets.org

   Find Poems
   Find Poets
   Poetry Near You
   Jobs for Poets
   Read Stanza
   Privacy Policy
   Press Center
   Advertise

academy of american poets

   About Us
   Programs
   Prizes
   First Book Award
   James Laughlin Award
   Ambroggio Prize
   Chancellors
   Staff

national poetry month

   Poetry & the Creative Mind
   Dear Poet Project
   Poster
   30 Ways to Celebrate
   Sponsorship

american poets

   Books Noted
   Essays
   Advertise

   © Academy of American Poets, 75 Maiden Lane, Suite 901, New York, NY
   10038
   poets.org
