   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-NX5LSK3

   Skip to main content
   The New Yorker
     * Newsletter

   To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories
   (BUTTON) Close Alert
   Sign In
   Search
     * News
     * Books & Culture
     * Fiction & Poetry
     * Humor & Cartoons
     * Magazine
     * Puzzles & Games
     * Video
     * Podcasts
     * Archive
     * Goings On
     * Shop

   (BUTTON) Open Navigation Menu

   To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories
   (BUTTON) Close Alert
   The New Yorker

   Page-Turner

Lost in Translation: What the First Line of “The Stranger” Should Be

   By Ryan Bloom
   May 11, 2012
     *
     *
     *
     *
     * Save this story for later.

   Lost in Translation What the First Line of “The Stranger” Should Be
     *
     *
     *
     *
     * Save this story for later.

   For the modern American reader, few lines in French literature are as
   famous as the opening of Albert Camus’s “L’Étranger”: “Aujourd’hui,
   maman est morte.” Nitty-gritty tense issues aside, the first sentence
   of “The Stranger” is so elementary that even a schoolboy with a base
   knowledge of French could adequately translate it. So why do the pros
   keep getting it wrong?

   Within the novel’s first sentence, two subtle and seemingly minor
   translation decisions have the power to change the way we read
   everything that follows. What makes these particular choices prickly is
   that they poke at a long-standing debate among the literary community:
   whether it is necessary for a translator to have some sort of special
   affinity with a work’s author in order to produce the best possible
   text.

   Arthur Goldhammer, translator of a volume of Camus’s Combat editorials,
   calls it “nonsense” to believe that “good translation requires some
   sort of mystical sympathy between author and translator.” While
   “mystical” may indeed be a bit of a stretch, it’s hard to look at
   Camus’s famous first sentence—whether translated by Stuart Gilbert,
   Joseph Laredo, Kate Griffith, or even, to a lesser degree, Matthew
   Ward—without thinking that a little more understanding between author
   and translator may have prevented the text from being colored in ways
   that Camus never intended.

   Stuart Gilbert, a British scholar and a friend of James Joyce, was the
   first person to attempt Camus’s “L’Étranger” in English. In 1946,
   Gilbert translated the book’s title as “The Outsider” and rendered the
   first line as “Mother died today.” Simple, succinct, and incorrect.

   In 1982, both Joseph Laredo and Kate Griffith produced new translations
   of “L’Étranger,” each opting for Gilbert’s revised title, “The
   Stranger,” but preserving his first line. “Mother died today” remained,
   and it wasn’t until 1988 that the line saw a single word changed. It
   was then that American translator and poet Matthew Ward reverted
   “Mother” back to Maman. One word? What’s the big deal? A large part of
   how we view and—alongside the novel’s court—ultimately judge Meursault
   lies in our perception of his relationship with his mother. We condemn
   or set him free based not on the crime he commits but on our assessment
   of him as a person. Does he love his mother? Or is he cold toward her,
   uncaring, even?

   First impressions matter, and, for forty-two years, the way that
   American readers were introduced to Meursault was through the detached
   formality of his statement: “Mother died today.” There is little
   warmth, little bond or closeness or love in “Mother,” which is a
   static, archetypal term, not the sort of thing we use for a living,
   breathing being with whom we have close relations. To do so would be
   like calling the family dog “Dog” or a husband “Husband.” The word
   forces us to see Meursault as distant from the woman who bore him.

   What if the opening line had read, “Mommy died today”? How would we
   have seen Meursault then? Likely, our first impression would have been
   of a child speaking. Rather than being put off, we would have felt pity
   or sympathy. But this, too, would have presented an inaccurate view of
   Meursault. The truth is that neither of these translations—“Mother” or
   “Mommy”—ring true to the original. The French word maman hangs
   somewhere between the two extremes: it’s neither the cold and distant
   “mother” nor the overly childlike “mommy.” In English, “mom” might seem
   the closest fit for Camus’s sentence, but there’s still something
   off-putting and abrupt about the single-syllable word; the two-syllable
   maman has a touch of softness and warmth that is lost with “mom.”

   So how is the English-language translator to avoid unnecessarily
   influencing the reader? It seems that Matthew Ward, the novel’s most
   recent translator, did the only logical thing: nothing. He left Camus’s
   word untouched, rendering the famous first line, “Maman died today.” It
   could be said that Ward introduces a new problem: now, right from the
   start, the American reader is faced with a foreign term, with a
   confusion not previously present. Ward’s translation is clever, though,
   and three reasons demonstrate why his is the best solution.

   First, the French word maman is familiar enough for an English-language
   reader to parse. Around the globe, as children learn to form words by
   babbling, they begin with the simplest sounds. In many languages,
   bilabials such as “m,” “p,” and “b,” as well as the low vowel “a,” are
   among the easiest to produce. As a result, in English, we find that
   children initially refer to the female parent as “mama.” Even in a
   language as seemingly different as Mandarin Chinese, we find māma; in
   the languages of Southern India we get amma, and in Norwegian, Italian,
   Swedish, and Icelandic, as well as many other languages, the word used
   is “mamma.” The French maman is so similar that the English-language
   reader will effortlessly understand it.

   As the years pass, new generations of American readers, who often first
   encounter Camus’s book in high school, grow more and more removed from
   the novel’s historical context. Utilizing the original French word in
   the first sentence rather than any of the English options also serves
   to remind readers that they are in fact entering a world different from
   their own. While this hint may not be enough to inform the younger
   reader that, for example, the likelihood of a Frenchman in colonial
   Algeria getting the death penalty for killing an armed Arab was slim to
   nonexistent, at least it provides an initial allusion to these
   extra-textual facts.

   Finally, and perhaps most important, the American reader will harbor no
   preconceived notions of the word maman. We will understand it with
   ease, but it will carry no baggage, it will plant no unintended seeds
   in our head. The word will neither sway us to see Meursault as overly
   cold and heartless nor as overly warm and loving. And while some of the
   word’s precision is indeed lost for the English-language reader, maman
   still gives us a more neutral-to-familiar tone than “mother,” one that
   hews closer to Camus’s original.

   So if Matthew Ward finally corrected the mother problem, what exactly
   has he, and the other translators, gotten wrong? Writing of “The
   Stranger” ’s first line in the Guardian, Guy Dammann says, “Some
   openers are so prescient that they seem to burn a hole through the rest
   of the book, the semantic resonance recurring with the persistence of
   the first theme in Beethoven’s fifth symphony.”

   The linguistic fluency of any good translator tells them that,
   syntactically, “Aujourd’hui, maman est morte,” is not the most fluid
   English sentence. So rather than the more literal translation, “Today,
   Mother has died,” we get, “Mother died today,” which is the smoother,
   more natural rendering. But the question is: In changing the sentence’s
   syntax, are we also changing its logic, its “mystical” deeper meaning?

   The answer is a resounding oui!

   Rendering the line as “Mother died today” completely neglects a
   specific ordering of ideas that offer insight into Meursault’s inner
   psyche. Throughout the course of the novel, the reader comes to see
   that Meursault is a character who, first and foremost, lives for the
   moment. He does not consciously dwell on the past; he does not worry
   about the future. What matters is today. The single most important
   factor of his being is right now.

   Not far behind, though, is Maman. Reflective of Camus’s life, Meursault
   shares a unique relationship with his mother, due in part to her
   inability to communicate (Camus’s own mother was illiterate, partially
   deaf, and had trouble speaking). Both Camus and Meursault yearn for
   Maman, for her happiness and love, but find the expression of these
   emotions difficult. Rather than distancing mother from son, though,
   this tension puts Maman at the center of her son’s life. As the book
   opens, the loss of Maman places her between Meursault’s ability to live
   for today and his recognition of a time when there will no longer be a
   today.

   This loss drives the action of the novel, leading inexorably to the
   end, the final period, the thing that hangs over all else: death. Early
   in the book, Camus links the death of Meursault’s mother with the
   oppressive, ever-present sun, so that when we get to the climactic
   beach scene, we see the symbolism: sun equals loss of mother, sun
   causes Meursault to pull the trigger. In case we don’t get it, though,
   Camus makes the connection explicit, writing, “It was the same sun as
   on the day I buried Maman and, like then, my forehead especially was
   hurting me, all of the veins pulsating together beneath the skin.” As
   the trigger gives way, so, too, does today, the beginning—through the
   loss of Maman—succumb to death, the end.

   The ordering of words in Camus’s first sentence is no accident: today
   is interrupted by Maman’s death. The sentence, the one we have yet to
   see correctly rendered in an English translation of “L’Étranger,”
   should read: “Today, Maman died.”

   Photograph by Henri Cartier-Bresson/Magnum.

   More:Camus

Books & Fiction

   Get book recommendations, fiction, poetry, and dispatches from the
   world of literature in your in-box. Sign up for the Books & Fiction
   newsletter.
   E-mail address
   ____________________
   (BUTTON) Sign up

   By signing up, you agree to our User Agreement and Privacy Policy &
   Cookie Statement.
   Read More
   Mazoltuv Borukhova and Mikhail Mallayev in Queens Supreme Court
   a-reporter-at-large
   Iphigenia in Forest Hills
   Anatomy of a murder trial.

   By Janet Malcolm
   Lyndon Johnson and John F. Kennedy walking out of a hotel
   annals-of-history
   The Day L.B.J. Took Charge
   Lyndon Johnson and the events in Dallas.

   By Robert A. Caro
   Painting of a woman wearing a red shirt
   a-reporter-at-large
   A Loaded Gun
   A mass shooter’s tragic past.

   By Patrick Radden Keefe
   Twenty-seven years after a friend’s murder, Andy Rosenzweig found
   himself revisiting the scene of the crime.
   annals-of-crime
   A Cold Case
   Suddenly, a New York cop remembered a long-ago murder.

   By Philip Gourevitch

   The New Yorker

   (BUTTON) Sections
     * News
     * Books & Culture
     * Fiction & Poetry
     * Humor & Cartoons
     * Magazine
     * Crossword
     * Video
     * Podcasts
     * Archive
     * Goings On

   (BUTTON) More
     * Customer Care
     * Shop The New Yorker
     * Buy Covers and Cartoons
     * Condé Nast Store
     * Digital Access
     * Newsletters
     * Jigsaw Puzzle
     * RSS

     * About
     * Careers
     * Contact
     * F.A.Q.
     * Media Kit
     * Press
     * Accessibility Help
     * Condé Nast Spotlight

   © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes
   acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie
   Statement and Your California Privacy Rights. The New Yorker may earn a
   portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as
   part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this
   site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or
   otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
   Ad Choices
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   (BUTTON) Do Not Sell My Personal Info
