Abstract

   The perpetual foreigner stereotype posits that members of ethnic
   minorities will always be seen as the "other" in the White Anglo-Saxon
   dominant society of the United States (Devos & Banaji, 2005), which may
   have negative implications for them. The goal of the present research
   was to determine whether awareness of this perpetual foreigner
   stereotype predicts identity and psychological adjustment. We conducted
   a series of studies with 231 Asian Americans and 211 Latino/as (Study
   1), 89 African Americans (Study 2), and 56 Asian Americans and 165
   Latino/as (Study 3). All participants completed measures of perceived
   discrimination, awareness of the perpetual foreigner stereotype,
   conflict between ethnic and national identities, sense of belonging to
   American culture, and demographics. In Study 3, participants also
--
   university on the West Coast of the United States. Across studies, we
   found that even after controlling for perceived discrimination,
   awareness of the perpetual foreigner stereotype was a significant
   predictor of identity conflict and lower sense of belonging to American
   culture. From Study 3, we also found that, above and beyond perceived
   discrimination, awareness of the perpetual foreigner stereotype
   significantly predicted lower hope and life satisfaction for Asian
   Americans, and that it was a marginal predictor of greater depression
   for Latino/as. These results suggest that the perpetual foreigner
   stereotype may play a role in ethnic minority identity and adjustment.

--
   involving three major American ethnic minority groups, we sought to
   demonstrate that members of ethnic minorities are aware of this
   perpetual foreigner stereotype (Cheryan & Monin, 2005; Devos & Banaji,
   2005), and this awareness is linked to their sense of belonging to
   American society, sense of conflict between ethnic and national
--
   ethnically and culturally diverse population, members of ethnic
   minority groups are often innocuously denied the American identity and
   treated as if they were perpetual foreigners." This especially is
   evident in recent research that shows an overwhelming propensity to
   more readily ascribe the American identity to European Americans rather
--
   marginalizing incidents, such as questioning an individual's home-town,
   complimenting his/her command of the English language, or mistaking
   him/her as a foreigner (Liang et al., 2004). These behaviors comprise a
   contemporary form of racism called racial microaggression, whereby
   racism is disguised in supposedly benign behaviors and comments (e.g.,
--

   Research on the extent to which ethnic minorities are aware of being
   stereotyped as foreigners is limited. In a study on identity denial, or
   the acceptance threat that results when an individual who does not
   match the prototype of an in-group sees his/her identity called into
--
   phenomenon that has been identified in the literature (e.g., Cheryan &
   Monin, 2005; Devos & Banaji, 2005; Sue, Capodilupo, et al., 2007), the
   link, if any, between awareness of this perpetual foreigner stereotype,
   identity, and psychological adjustment has not been directly examined.
   In terms of identity, Cheryan and Monin (2005) found that identity
--
   believes he/she is perceived by others and his/her own perception of
   the self. In the present research, we were particularly interested in
   the association between awareness of the perpetual foreigner stereotype
   and subjective reports of conflict between one's ethnic and national
   identities, as well as feelings of belonging to mainstream American
--
   If minority groups are, to some extent, cognizant that they are
   psychologically denied the American identity, we expect that the
   awareness of being perceived as a foreigner may account for subjective
   reports of internal conflict between their ethnic and national
   identities. Benet-Martinez and Haritatos's (2005) work on bicultural
--
   identities are not convergent, they may become conflicting or even
   competing, such that the individual feels he/she must choose between
   one identity or another. In the case of the perpetual foreigner
   stereotype, individuals whose American identity is often called into
   question may conclude that they are not perceived as being as American
   as European Americans. Thus, we hypothesized that one's awareness of
   being perceived by others as a foreigner would predict one's sense of
   conflict between ethnic and national identities.

--

   Additionally, we investigated whether awareness of the perpetual
   foreigner stereotype is associated with feelings of belonging in
   America. A study of ethnic and American identity among ethnic minority
   adolescents suggested that many feel as if American or mainstream
--
   marginalized from this identity. Thus, based on the above concurrent
   findings on sense of belonging and national attachment, we expected
   individuals who feel frequently reminded of their perpetual foreigner
   status and consequently psychologically denied the American identity to
   feel marginalized from mainstream American society and to experience a
--
   we hypothesized that an individual's sense of belonging to mainstream
   American culture would be predicted by his/her awareness of being
   perceived as a foreigner.

PERPETUAL FOREIGNER STEREOTYPE AND PSYCHOLOGICAL ADJUSTMENT

   In addition to the relations with identity, we were also interested in
   the association between awareness of the perpetual foreigner stereotype
   and psychological adjustment, including mental health (depression) and
   well-being (hope and life satisfaction). Previous research suggests
   that subtle forms of racism, such as racial micro-aggressions and the
   perpetual foreigner stereotype, may be detrimental to victims'
   psychological health, like old-fashioned, overt racism (Sue,
   Capodilupo, et al., 2007). For example, targets of racial
   microaggressions report experiencing anxiety, stress, helplessness,
   academic disengagement, anger, and frustration (Smith, Allen, & Danley,
   2007; Solorzano, Ceja, & Yosso, 2000). The perpetual foreigner
   stereotype is particularly salient for Asian Americans, for whom being
   treated as an alien in one's own land is associated with feelings of
--
   Torino, 2007). Although the above studies provide a rich and detailed
   understanding of racial microaggressions, including the perpetual
   foreigner stereotype, they are all purely qualitative in nature and
   restricted to one ethnic group. In the current set of quantitative
   studies, we hypothesized that awareness of the perpetual foreigner
   stereotype will predict higher levels of depression and lower levels of
   hope and life satisfaction for both Latino/as and Asian Americans
--
   discrimination (e.g., Klonoff & Landrine, 1999; Neto, 2001; discussed
   below), so they were chosen to provide evidence of incremental validity
   for the perpetual foreigner stereotype construct.

THE ROLE OF PERCEIVED DISCRIMINATION
--
   perceived discrimination. It could be said that perceived
   discrimination, as it is typically measured, refers to a more blatant
   form of discrimination than the perpetual foreigner stereotype, which
   constitutes a more subtle form of discrimination (Devos & Banaji, 2005;
   Sue, Capodilupo, et al., 2007). Experiences with both forms of
--
   findings, we expected that perceived discrimination would be related to
   identity and psychological adjustment, but we hypothesized that the
   perpetual foreigner stereotype would predict identity and psychological
   adjustment above and beyond perceived discrimination.

--

   The goals of the current studies were two-fold: (1) to examine the
   perpetual foreigner stereotype and perceived discrimination in
   different ethnic minority groups, and (2) to determine the potential
   implications of the perpetual foreigner stereotype for individuals'
   identity and psychological adjustment. Specifically, we hypothesized
   that exposure to the perpetual foreigner stereotype and discrimination
   would be a more common experience for ethnic minorities than for
   European Americans, such that Asian Americans, Latino/as, and African
   Americans would report both higher awareness of the perpetual foreigner
   stereotype and higher perceived discrimination as compared to European
   Americans. Moreover, after controlling for the effects of perceived
   discrimination, the perpetual foreigner stereotype should predict (a) a
   greater sense of conflict between one's ethnic and national identities,
   (b) a lower sense of belonging to mainstream American society, (c)
   higher levels of depression symptoms, (d) lower levels of hope, and (e)
   lower levels of life satisfaction among ethnic minorities. We tested
   the first hypothesis about awareness of the perpetual foreigner
   stereotype using data from Asian Americans (Studies 1 and 3), Latino/as
   (Studies 1 and 3), and African Americans (Study 2); hypotheses about
--
STUDY 1

   To examine awareness of the perpetual foreigner stereotype and
   perceived experiences of discrimination among different ethnic groups,
   we collected data from Asian Americans, Latino/as, and European
   Americans in Study 1. We also examined the link between the awareness
   of being viewed as a perpetual foreigner and important facets of
   identity.

--

   Participants completed a series of measures assessing perceived
   discrimination, awareness of the perpetual foreigner stereotype,
   perception of conflict between ethnic and national identities, sense of
   belonging to American culture, and basic demographics. All items were
--
   3.92a (0.59) 2.11b (0.58) 3.40 (0.69) 2.95 (0.53)
   [alpha] .90 .80 .80 .79 .93 .79 .73 .82 .66
   Perpetual foreigner stereotype
   M (SD) 2.16 (0.83) 2.71a (0.67) 2.65a (0.75) 1.57b (0.49) 2.01 (0.72)
   2.33a (0.64) 1.54b (0.55) 2.74 (0.73) 2.63 (0.72)
--
   Correlations Among Measured Variables for Latino/as and Asian Americans
   in Study 1
                                  Discrimination Foreigner Conflict Belonging
   Perceived discrimination            ---          .46      .36     +/-.34
   Perpetual foreigner stereotype      .40          ---      .50     +/-.49
   Identity conflict                   .41          .55      ---     +/-.34
   Sense of belonging                 +/-.36      +/-.59    +/-.39     ---
--
   (reverse scored).

Awareness of the Perpetual Foreigner Stereotype

   Thirteen items measured the extent to which participants believed they
   were perceived as a foreigner (as opposed to an American citizen) by
   others, without reference to the race or ethnicity of the perpetrator.
   Sample items include: "Sometimes people think I am a foreigner" and
   "Most people have difficulty viewing me as an American." These items
   were developed specifically for the present research and were generated
--
   located in cubicles in a small lab setting, and there were screens
   between each computer desk for privacy. Measures were completed in the
   following order: awareness of the perpetual foreigner stereotype,
   perception of conflict between ethnic and national identities, Scale of
   Ethnic Experience (including the perceived discrimination and sense of
--
   x 10^+/-136, r[contrast] = .72, 95% CI: .70 to .76. Contrast analyses
   also showed that European Americans (M = 1.57, SD = 0.49) reported
   significantly lower awareness of the perpetual foreigner stereotype
   toward the self than Asian Americans (M = 2.71, SD = 0.67) and
   Latino/as (M = 2.65, SD = 0.75); [lambda] = +/-2, 1, 1; t(760.53) =
--
   These findings are in line with previous research suggesting that
   ethnic minorities are indeed more aware that they are stereotyped as
   foreigners (Barlow et al., 2000; Cheryan & Monin, 2005; Liang et al.,
   2004).

   Not only did European Americans report significantly lower perceived
   discrimination and awareness of the perpetual foreigner stereotype than
   Asian Americans and Latino/as in our sample (see Table 2), their
   arithmetic means were well below the midpoint of the scales. This
   suggests that perceived discrimination and the perpetual foreigner
   stereotype are not routinely experienced by members of this ethnic
   group. Because the goal of our study was to examine the relation
--
   analyses.

   To test our hypothesis that awareness of the perpetual foreigner
   stereotype predicts the outcomes of interest above and beyond perceived
   discrimination, we conducted hierarchical regression analyses
--
   regression results). Using data from Asian Americans only, we found
   that even after controlling for perceived discrimination, awareness of
   the perpetual foreigner stereotype was a significant predictor of both
   perception of identity conflict, [Delta]R^2 = .14, F(1, 228) = 44.12, p
   = 2.24 x 10^+/-10, and lower sense of belonging to American culture,
   [Delta]R^2 = .14, F(1, 228) = 44.38, p = 2.00 x 10^+/-10. Likewise,
   using data from Latino/as only, we found that awareness of the
   perpetual foreigner stereotype significantly predicted perception of
   identity conflict, [Delta]R^2 = .18, F(1, 208) = 55.58, p = 2.38 x
   10^+/-12, and lower sense of belonging to American culture, [Delta]R^2
--
   SE B 0.08 0.08 0.14 0.10 0.18
   [beta] .17 .23 .35 .19 .02
   Perpetual foreigner stereotype
   B 0.51 0.54 0.36 0.36 0.56
   SE B 0.08 0.07 0.13 0.09 0.14
--
   SE B 0.06 0.07 0.10 0.08 0.15
   [beta] +/-.14 +/-.15 +/-.15 +/-.15 .08
   Perpetual foreigner stereotype
   B +/-0.41 +/-0.54 +/-0.55 +/-0.43 +/-0.37
   SE B 0.06 0.06 0.10 0.07 0.11
--
   SE B --- --- --- 0.05 0.09
   [beta] --- --- --- .11 .37
   Perpetual foreigner stereotype
   B --- --- --- 0.10 0.07
   SE B --- --- --- 0.05 0.07
--
   SE B --- --- --- 0.13 0.25
   [beta] --- --- --- .06 .04
   Perpetual foreigner stereotype
   B --- --- --- +/-0.08 +/-0.43
   SE B --- --- --- 0.13 0.19
--
   SE B --- --- --- 0.15 0.24
   [beta] +/-.09 +/-.41
   Perpetual foreigner stereotype
   B --- --- --- +/-0.16 +/-0.42
   SE B --- --- --- 0.14 0.18
--
   exclusion and marginalization may come in subtle forms, such as
   implying that African Americans are not typical Americans (even if most
   of them are not seen as foreigners in the common meaning of the term).
   Thus, to determine whether findings on Asian Americans and Latino/as in
   Study 1 extend to African Americans, we conducted Study 2.
--

   Participants in Study 2 were administered the same measures as in Study
   1: perceived discrimination, awareness of the perpetual foreigner
   stereotype, perception of conflict between ethnic and national
   identities, sense of belonging to American culture, and basic
--

   Correlations Among Measured Variables for African Americans in Study 2
                                  Discrimination Foreigner Conflict Belonging
   Perceived discrimination            ---          ---      ---       ---
   Perpetual foreigner stereotype      .17          ---      ---       ---
   Identity conflict                   .40          .33      ---       ---
   Sense of belonging                 +/-.24      +/-.54    +/-.19     ---
--
   r = .84, 95% CI: .78 to .88 (see Table 2). In addition, European
   Americans (M = 1.54, SD = 0.55) reported significantly lower awareness
   of the perpetual foreigner stereotype toward the self than African
   Americans (M = 2.33, SD = 0.64); t(149) = 7.83, p = 8.33 x 10^+/-13, r
   = .54, 95% CI: .42 to .65. As in Study 1, we conducted hierarchical
   regression analyses to determine whether awareness of the perpetual
   foreigner stereotype among African Americans predicts the outcomes of
   interest above and beyond perceived discrimination (see Table 4 for
   regression results). We found that awareness of the perpetual foreigner
   stereotype was a significant predictor of perception of identity
   conflict, [Delta]R^2 = .07, F(1, 86) = 8.12, p = .005, and lower sense
--
   Thus, results from Studies 1 and 2 suggest that for the three major
   American ethnic minority groups in our samples ---Asian Americans,
   Latino/as, and African Americans ---the perpetual foreigner stereotype
   is an important predictor of identity, such that participants who
   report that they are seen as perpetual foreigners also are more likely
   to perceive conflict between their national and ethnic identities and
   feel less comfortable in mainstream American culture, even when we
   control for perceived discrimination. In addition, although there is a
   reliable small-medium correlation between these two variables
   (awareness of the perpetual foreigner stereotype and perceived
   discrimination; see Tables 3 and and5)5) in these three samples, they
   each independently account for the identity outcomes of interest.
--

   In addition to examining identity, we also wanted to determine whether
   the perpetual foreigner stereotype is an important predictor of
   psychological adjustment; thus, we conducted Study 3. Specifically, we
   were interested in whether awareness of the perpetual foreigner
   stereotype predicts mental health (depression) and well-being (hope and
   life satisfaction) above and beyond perceived discrimination among
--

   In addition to completing the measures from Study 1 (perceived
   discrimination, awareness of the perpetual foreigner stereotype,
   perception of conflict between ethnic and national identities, sense of
   belonging to American culture, and basic demographics), participants in
--

   Correlations Among Measured Variables for Study 3
   Discrimination Foreigner Conflict Belonging Depression Hope
   Satisfaction
   Perceived discrimination --- .30 .17 +/-.05 .41 +/-.06 +/-.49
   Perpetual foreigner stereotype .47 --- .52 +/-.41 .25 +/-.30 +/-.40
   Identity conflict .33 .39 --- +/-.22 .26 +/-.25 +/-.18
   Sense of belonging +/-.37 +/-.53 +/-.38 --- +/-.14 .27 .37
--
   Replicating our Study 1 results with Latino/as and Asian Americans, we
   found that even after controlling for perceived discrimination,
   awareness of the perpetual foreigner stereotype was a significant
   predictor of perception of identity conflict and lower sense of
   belonging for both groups in Study 3 (see Table 4 for regression
--

   Furthermore, we found that for Latino/as, awareness of the perpetual
   foreigner stereotype was a marginal predictor of depression over and
   above perceived discrimination, [Delta]R^2 = .02, F(1, 162) = 3.53, p =
   .06. Contrary to our hypothesis, awareness of the perpetual foreigner
   stereotype did not significantly predict hope, [Delta]R^2 = .003, F(1,
   162) = 0.45, p = .50, or life satisfaction, [Delta]R^2 = .008, F(1,
--
   Latino/as.

   For Asian Americans, awareness of the perpetual foreigner stereotype
   was not a significant predictor of depression over and above perceived
   discrimination, [Delta]R^2 = .02, F(1, 53) = 1.09, p = .30. However, it
--

   In summary, results from Study 3 suggest that for Asian Americans and
   Latino/as, the perpetual foreigner stereotype is a predictor of
   different types of psychological adjustment. In particular,
   participants who report that they are seen as perpetual foreigners
   report more depressive symptoms (for Latino/as), and lower hope and
   lower life satisfaction (for Asian Americans), even when we control for
--

   The present research sought to systematically document ethnic
   minorities' awareness of being stereotyped as perpetual foreigners and
   examine the links between this awareness, identity, and psychological
   adjustment. Together, our studies demonstrate that to various degrees,
   ethnic minorities but not European Americans perceive that they are the
   targets of the perpetual foreigner stereotype, and that this subtle
   form of exclusion is linked to ethnic minorities' identity and some
   types of psychological adjustment. Specifically, as predicted, Asian
   Americans (Study 1), Latino/as (Study 1), and African Americans (Study
   2) report significantly higher awareness of the perpetual foreigner
   stereotype toward them than do European Americans (Studies 1 and 2).^1
   Also as hypothesized, variations in the awareness of being stereotyped
   as a foreigner is associated with perceptions of conflict between an
   individual's ethnic and national identities, even after controlling for
   perceived discrimination, providing evidence of incremental validity
   for the perpetual foreigner construct (Studies 1-3). Asian Americans,
   Latino/as, and African Americans who perceive that they are not seen as
   Americans by others report experiencing greater tension between their
--
   to each other, the more complex his/her social identity will be. The
   current findings suggest that some ethnic minorities' awareness of
   being perceived as foreigners may contribute to the perception that
   their ethnic and national identities are dissimilar and even
   incompatible, thereby forcing them to maintain a more complex social
--
   their efforts to form a unified and integrated identity.

   The awareness of being perceived as a foreigner also is associated with
   weakened sense of belonging in America (Studies 1-3). As hypothesized,
   the extent to which an individual is aware of being viewed as a
   foreigner is highly correlated with his/her inability to feel part of
   the national identity, even after controlling for perceived
   discrimination. Some ethnic minorities, aware of the stereotypes
--
   involvement, all of which are bolstered by a sense of identification
   with the group (in this case, the American identity). Perceiving
   exclusion in the form of the perpetual foreigner stereotype may
   discourage some ethnic minorities from actively participating in
   American society.
--
   In addition to the strong correlations between ethnic minorities'
   awareness of being stereotyped and their identity, their subjective
   experiences with the perpetual foreigner stereotype are moderately
   linked to adjustment. As expected, ethnic minorities who are more aware
   of the perpetual foreigner stereotype tend to report greater depression
   (for Latino/as, Study 3) and lower hope or life-satisfaction (for Asian
   Americans, Study 3), even after controlling for perceived
   discrimination, providing further evidence for the incremental validity
   of the perpetual foreigner construct.^2 It should be emphasized that
   the patterns of associations between the perpetual foreigner stereotype
   and adjustment are different for Latino/as and Asian Americans. It is
   possible that the perpetual foreigner stereotype operates differently
   for these two groups. For example, American history ---with wars in
   Japan, Korea, and Viet Nam, and fears of the yellow peril with regard
--
   Overall, our findings are in line with the racial microaggressions
   perspective, which suggests that subtle forms of racism, such as being
   perceived by others as foreigners even when one identifies as American,
   may be detrimental to the victim's psychological adjustment (Sue,
   Capodilupo, et al., 2007). American ethnic minorities who feel that
   they are frequently perceived as foreigners and denied their ingroup
   status may feel conflicted about their national identity and have a
   sense of cultural homelessness, which in turn can lead to poorer
--
   perceive less acceptance from mainstream American society, or have a
   generally more negative outlook on life. Thus, they also report more
   awareness of the perpetual foreigner stereotype. More research is
   needed to determine the complex causal pathways among these variables.

   Another way in which exposure to the perpetual foreigner stereotype may
   negatively impact ethnic minorities' psychological adjustment can be
   viewed in light of research on stigma consciousness (Pinel, 1999).
--
   higher expectations of being the target of these types of responses
   than groups that do not. Similarly, ethnic minorities who are
   frequently reminded of their perpetual foreigner status may come to
   expect to be stereotyped in this manner. Our findings highlight the
   potentially deleterious effects of such expectations, even when the
--
   studies used data from undergraduate university students, who represent
   only a small sub-set of the American population. However, it can be
   argued that if effects of the perpetual foreigner stereotype can be
   seen among a well-educated, successful population of individuals, the
   phenomenon may be even more magnified in other sub-sets of the American
--
   A second limitation of the current research is its correlational
   nature. Despite establishing the predictive validity (in the regression
   sense) of the perpetual foreigner stereotype, it is impossible based on
   the present set of findings to make claims as to whether one's
   awareness of being seen as a foreigner is the cause of internal
   conflict, a lowered sense of belonging to mainstream America, and poor
   psychological adjustment. Future experimental or longitudinal research
--
   support, and ethnic and mainstream American social networks, that may
   serve as buffers in the negative link between individuals' awareness of
   the perpetual foreigner stereotype and their psychological well-being.

CONCLUSION
--
   most important contribution of the present studies is the
   identification of the potential impact of the awareness of the
   perpetual foreigner stereotype on one's identity and psychological
   adjustment. Our results suggest that the simple awareness of being seen
   as less American may influence an individual's adjustment and the way
   he/she perceives him/herself. In addition to establishing a foundation
   upon which to further examine the potentially negative consequences of
   the perpetual foreigner stereotype for ethnic minorities, the present
   research provides insight into how an underlying exclusionary national
   mindset may have nontrivial implications for minority groups' identity
--
APPENDIX

Awareness of the Perpetual Foreigner Stereotype Scale

    1. Most people see me as an American.*
--
       American.
    4. Due to my ethnicity, people sometimes assume I am not American.
    5. Sometimes people think I am a foreigner.
    6. Based on my physical appearance, people assume I am American.*
    7. Because of how I speak, people sometimes think I am not a U.S.
--
    8. Sometimes people interpret what I do or say as if I was not
       American.
    9. When people look at me, they see a foreigner.
   10. My ethnic heritage sometimes disqualifies me as American.
   11. People sometimes ask me where I am from.
--
   average, they tend to perceive discrimination toward themselves and
   their group. However, none of the group means on the perpetual
   foreigner scale were above the midpoint. Thus, in absolute terms, none
   of the groups in Studies 1-3 reported being treated as perpetual
   foreigners to a great extent. Participants also reported low identity
   conflict (group means below the midpoint across the 3 studies) and high
   sense of belonging (group means above the midpoint across the 3
