   A foreign national moves goods from a looted shop in the Johannesburg
   township of Alexandra on September 3, 2019 after South Africa's
   financial capital was hit by a new wave of anti-foreigner violence.
   (Michele Spatari / AFP via Getty Images)

--
   changed in the last few months; members of the governing party, the
   African National Congress, are asking for border reinforcement and
   openly associating foreigner activities in the country with insecurity
   as opposed to economic growth. Finally, news highlights in South Africa
   now include scenes of burnt shacks, palpable fear, and public protests
   as angry mobs frantically search for undocumented foreigners. To fully
   understand why South Africa and its democratic institutions are
   entering a nationalist winter, a snippet of African political history
--
   seriously taken ownership of the xenophobic agenda. The issue mainly
   emerged from an impoverished population that focused their efforts on
   looting local spaza shops typically owned by foreigners from other
   African countries, as opposed to retail giants owned by white South
   African capital (which was what happened during the July riots of
--
   been in power since independence in 1960, and Diouf was Senghor’s
   successor. President Diouf did what many had done before him in
   response to an economic meltdown: blame the “aliens” and “foreigners”
   in a clumsy attempt to gain back political legitimacy without
   addressing the inequities of a rapacious neoliberal economic order.
--
   In 1968, only two years after toppling the Ghanaian father of
   independence and pan-African hero, Kwame Nkrumah, Ghanaian prime
   minister Kofi Busia fell into the same trap: blaming foreigners, rather
   than the national bourgeoisie for the country’s economic downfall. In
   1968, Legislative Instrument 553 decreed that all non-Ghanaians had to
   have a work permit before they could act as employer, self-employed
   person, or employees. A Compliance Order was issued in the same year
   giving all foreigners without residence permits two weeks to obtain
   them or leave the country. Naturally, very few Africans had the
   necessary papers, and could not even claim it from their
--
   country like Kofi Busia. A year later, then military ruler General
   Muhammdu Buhari (who is now Nigeria’s incumbent president), announced
   another round of expulsions, this time, of all foreigners, including
   those with residence permits. About seven hundred thousand people were
   forced out of the country.
--
   come. Indeed, African political history teaches us that for a short
   period of time the national elite is safe, being seen as “doing its
   job” for the people, but the chimera won’t last. If and when foreigners
   leave, the situation will not improve. People’s anger will be
   redirected to the national elite, as demonstrated in Nigeria, Ghana,
