Thaiger

Cambodia | Thailand’s LTR visa needs reworking to attract foreigners

     *
--
Economy

Thailand’s LTR visa needs reworking to attract foreigners

   [tintin1-80x80.jpg]
--

   Thailand is still confident its updated Long-Term Resident (LTR) visa
   will attract affluent foreigners despite more attractive LTR visa
   options in other countries.

   On September 1, Thailand launched a revised LTR visa, joining other
   nations such as Cambodia, Singapore, Malaysia, and the Philippines,
   targeting rich foreigners.
   [INS: :INS]

   The Thai government cut the cost of the 10-year LTR visa in half, from
   100,000 baht to 50,000 baht, in a bid to attract their four target
   groups of foreigners: foreign experts, wealthy people, retirees, and
   those who want to work in Thailand.

--
   The initial outlay of 50,000 baht is not a significant amount of money.
   But, like all of these things that sound too good to be true, there is
   a catch. The Thai government has a set of hoops for foreigners to jump
   through and, for good measure, a few high fences to climb.

   There is a special set of criteria each group has to meet.

   Foreigners who want to live in Thailand must have combined assets of at
   least US$1 million and an income of at least US$80,000 per year. Not
   only that, but they must also invest at least US$500,000 in Thailand,
   in property or other assets.

   Foreigners who have retired, or foreign experts, must earn at least
   US$80,000 per year. Those foreign experts must also have about five
   years of experience working at a specialist level in a targeted
   industry.

   For foreigners who want to work in Thailand, they must earn at least
   US$80,000 per year and also have a minimum of five years of experience
   working in legally registered companies with total revenue of US$150
--

   The Philippines launched a Special Investors Resident Visa (SIRV)
   earlier this month offering permanent residency to any foreigner who
   invests at least US$75,000 in business or securities.

   Once a foreigner has invested in the Philippines, they are immediately
   awarded residency – something Thailand does not offer. The SIRV holder,
   their spouse, and children can freely enter and exit the Philippines
--
   2022-10-24 22:12
   4 minutes ago, Pinga said: That's exactly what I mean. Every small
   crime involving a foreigner gets amplified in Thai media. Bring a lot
   of new expats with low income and the amount of such crimes (and
   exposure) will increase.…
