     * TPP

Top 10 kinds of foreigners in China

   By Shark Minnow (blog.chinadaily.com.cn) Updated: 2015-04-17 10:42
   Comments Print Mail Large Medium Small

                     Top 10 kinds of foreigners in China

   Foreign tourists pose for photos on the Tiananmen Square in Beijing,
--

   Having lived in China pretty much my entire adult life, I have seen
   many foreigners come and go over the years. I was talking to a friend
   who has also lived here awhile and we started discussing the different
   kinds of foreigners we've come across. We came up with eight types
   together, and I added a couple more to round it out to a nice 10. This
   is by no means concrete or 100% accurate and not meant to encourage
   stereotypes, but I think there is a definite hint of truth to it, and
   probably a bit educational for Chinese readers. Any one foreigner may
   cross into another category and is by no means just relegated to one
   class. Many are "cross-overs".

   These are the categories of different kinds of foreigners we have met
   in China and have known over the years:

--

   The predominant field of expats in China is education, and I am myself
   part of this first class of foreigners. Some foreigners teach in China
   because they couldn't find a job in their home country, some because
   they've lived here a long time and have decided to settle down, or some
--
   2. (Drumroll....) Entrepreneurs/Venture capitalists

   Mostly young (but can be any age) foreigners who are determined to
   either start their own business in China, get involved in
   imports/exports, or any scheme to "Hit it Big" in China! These are also
--
   3. Corporate Multinationals/Media

   Green Card/VIP Material: Distinguished foreigners who work for major
   corporations abroad abound. Other smaller multinationals included,
   these foreigners are your Americans, Germans, Aussies, Russians,
   Europeans, Africans, Indians, people from all over. These are the rich
   foreigners or foreigners who are well-established in their own field
   (media, business, etc.) at home as well as abroad. aka "The Big Fish"
   or "The Edwin Maher".
--
   4. Diplomats

   Foreigners who represent their government in China (Officials,
   Dignitaries, Embassy Workers, Bureaucrats, etc.) Yawn...

--

   A smaller group but becoming larger. Mostly young
   foreigners/30-somethings who are truly involved in making "One World,
   One Dream" a reality and the world a better place as a whole.

--

   Students studying abroad in China or another class, I term, "China
   Hands". China Hands are foreigners who live here purely out of love of
   the culture, language and people. They may be any age group, in any
   profession, but live here mostly for love of China. Think Da Shan. Both
--
   8.03K
   Related Stories
     * Why are foreigners leaving China?
     * China should police bad foreigners, too: expert
     * Foreigners' favorite Chinese dishes
     * Supportive China lures talented foreigners
     * Li promises to ease way for talented foreigners

   Most Viewed Today's Top News
--
   Star Bloggers
   [f8bc126d9820169b16d62e.jpg]
   One Belt, One Road for foreigners By kellivschina

   I’ve never been “that person” who is always trying to get friends’
