       [ ] Stay

   Defining 'Foreign Born' and 'Foreigner' in International Migration
   Statistics

--
   Print    |    RSS    |    Copyright & Reuse

Defining 'Foreign Born' and 'Foreigner' in International Migration Statistics

   July 1, 2002
--
   The influence of socio-cultural norms and historical experiences on
   migration statistics is best illustrated in the similar-yet-different
   concepts of "foreign born" and "foreigner," both of which are rooted in
   and reflect very different models of citizenship. In general, the
   majority of people around the world acquire citizenship in one of two
--
   defining who is, and can become, a citizen. Where people were born is
   not as important as if and how they can trace their ancestry back to
   the origin country. In this context, the term "foreigner" refers to
   those in the population whose heritage cannot be traced back to the
   host country. In general, under jus sanguinis citizenship policies, it
   is often difficult—though not impossible—for foreigners to naturalize,
   even if they are long-term residents or were native born to the
   country. Those foreigners who do naturalize typically have to
   demonstrate that they meet the required "integration" criteria, such as
   language skills or knowledge of the country's culture and history.
   While it is often difficult for resident foreigners to naturalize, it
   is usually easier for foreign-born ethnics to obtain citizenship after
   immigrating back to their ancestral "homeland," in some cases even if
   their families have lived abroad for generations. In this sense, the
   concept of foreigner divides a country's resident population—and,
   indeed, the world's population—into two groups: nationals, who have the
   right of citizenship by virtue of their ancestry, and foreigners, who
   must earn the right to naturalize.

   Foreign Born v. Foreigner: Reflecting Alternative Views of Citizenship

   These outlines of jus soli and jus sanguinis citizenship policies are,
--
   generally refers to anyone in the resident population who is a
   non-citizen and not of German descent, that is, both foreign-born and
   native-born foreigners who have not naturalized. However, it does not
   include either ethnic Germans who were born abroad and were awarded
   citizenship after immigration or non-German foreign-born persons who
   have naturalized; these individuals are considered to be, or to have
   become, nationals. As a result, while the concepts of foreign born and
   foreigner initially appear similar, they actually categorize people in
   fundamentally different ways. This makes it difficult to compare
   directly the migration stock data of the United States and Germany.
--
   difficult to compare. Concepts and terms that may initially appear to
   include the same categories of people, such as "foreign born" and
   "foreigner" or even "immigrant," may actually encompass very different
   groups. This means that the rate and trend statistics generated from
   these data, such as "percentage of foreign persons in the total
